# Doctor Reviews TOP Peptides For Fat Loss, Energy, & Endurance

*This Is Not Covered - Dr. Ashley Froese*

## Transcript

Everybody's talking about peptides for anti-aging, strength, energy, and fat loss. But there are so many to choose from, it's hard to pick. So, as a doctor with an integrative edge, I've done a lot of research in order to help you out. In this video, I'll tell you the three most worthwhile peptides for strength, energy, and fat loss that help people live their best lives while getting shredded. Now, everything that I'm about to say is controversial because the FDA doesn't really want you touching most of these. And just for the record, I don't prescribe these. I don't encourage people to take them, but I do get asked about peptides daily. And listen, I want you to stay safe and don't mistake this as personal medical advice. I'm a doctor on YouTube, not your doctor. With that said, let's get into it. This first one's actually two different peptides mixed together. It's CJC 1295 and ibmoralin. I made another video explaining how these two peptides work together synergistically. They basically stimulate pulses in growth hormone and IGF-1 which together support strength, muscle mass gains, recovery, and in some sleep quality. I've personally seen a fair amount of strength and muscle mass gains in people who are taking this and lift weights. And I do think that's key. If you're going to take peptides, you have to do the work. You can't just sit on the couch and take a peptide. You have to actually do the work to get the gains. A note, this is not for anyone with active or history of cancer because growth hormone can feed cancer cells. hand. I've actually heard more than one report of increased irritability while on this stack. And I like to share that with people because the last thing I want for you is to flip out on your family for no reason. And something interesting is that most people get a flushing sensation in the face or the head right after they take it. Some even have trouble sleeping and have really weird dreams. If you try anything like this, do a small test dose first. So, now that you've put some muscle on, what's the most obvious thing to do next? Burn some fat? Well, let's talk about tessamorin then. Tessamoralin is a fat incinerator. This is another growth hormone releasing hormone like CJC1 1295 but with an added bonus. The FDA has actually approved this peptide but only for HIV associated lipodistrophe which means that in HIV treated patients and especially on some of the older HIV drugs. If the person was getting side effects of increased visceral fat gain, the fat that lives around your liver, your intestines, your insides, you could use tessimoralin to decrease that fat mass. In clinical trials, it actually reduced visceral atapose tissue by 15 to 20%. Crazy, right? And this happened with 6 to 12 months of regular use of the peptide. And this brings many people to wonder, since there's a peptide out there that can reduce visceral fat tissue, and since visceral fat is the dangerous kind that's linked to cardiovascular disease and diabetes and things like that, why aren't we pushing for this peptide to be more widely used and regulated? Just a question I had. Tessammorelin might actually be the strongest longevity peptide we have that's backed by human trials. The downsides of this peptide decrease your fat stores too much and you might get some joint pains. It can cause water retention. It's expensive. It's daily injections and you really are going to want to monitor your blood sugar and IGF-1 levels when you're taking it. And just know that I did not claim that tessimorin reduces subcutaneous fat, the most common fat, the kind that most of you are trying to lose. So keep that in mind. All right. Lastly, let's talk about a seriously cool but less known peptide. Matz C. This is a peptide that is made in your mitochondria naturally. It's actually a mitochondrial genome that's made up of different amino acids. That's why it's a peptide. And seriously, people who use this report having better energy, more stamina, better workouts overall, and fat loss. You see, your mitochondria actually release MS C under metabolic stress and exercise. And what it does is it flips on two things. one called AMPK and one called mTor. And these are like energy switches in your mitochondria. And when they're turned on, your body can use energy and burn fat more efficiently. And this also leads to better glucose uptake and regulation, improved insulin sensitivity, and so you get more endurance, more energy, and fat loss as a result. Now, a disclaimer here. This peptide is in early research, and it really doesn't have a lot of data to back it up. Just a lot of bros and me on YouTube talking about it. So, there you have it. Those are my three top peptides for energy, longevity, and fat loss. An honorable mention is going to go to SLUPP332, which has a lot of similar benefits to MOSI, just works differently and is a little newer. I'm Dr. Ashley Frzy. I run a direct primary care clinic in Mesa, Arizona, which means that I don't take insurance. I only work for my patients. If you found this video helpful, hit like, subscribe to my channel, and I'll keep making videos that separate healthcare from marketing and big pharma so you can stay informed and safe. If you want to know more about peptides, watch this video next where I talk about the six most common and effective peptides out there. And if you want to know more about direct primary care and doctors like me, though maybe not as outside the box, see the link in my description. And you guys have a good
