# Doctor Explains 20 Most Powerful Peptides

*This Is Not Covered - Dr. Ashley Froese*

## Transcript

I'm a board-certified primary care physician and I don't take insurance, so I get to do some really cool things and talk about some really cool things that other doctors just won't. And lately, I've been deep diving into peptides. I won't tell you where to get them. I won't encourage you to take them. And I only prescribe the ones that are legal. But, I thought I'd give you a rundown of 20 of the most popular peptides so you can have something cool to talk to your friends about. Let's do this. Let's start with the spicy stuff, the fat loss peptides, because everybody wants abs without cardio. Am I right? But listen, you better be lifting weights if you're going to be doing this stuff. You don't want to be all flabby. Number one, semiglutide. FDA approved. Melts the pounds away. GLP1 agonist. Works by making you feel full and increasing your insulin sensitivity. Also makes you nauseous and constipated. Just saying. Number two, turppetide. Double hitter. GLP-1 and GIP agonist. Even bigger weight loss with less the side effects, just twice the price. And number three, can't go without saying, reatride, GLP1, GIP, and glucagon receptor. Triple hitter. This one's not out yet for me to prescribe, but a lot of people are trying it, and research is showing up to 24% weight loss. Number four, AOD9604. This is an HGH fragment, meaning it's growth hormone with the end chopped off. It's a supposed fat burner, but there's really mixed results on this one. I don't know that I would try this one, honestly. Number five, Tessameoral Potent Fat Burner cuts visceral fat like no other. This is FDA approved for HIV associated lipodistrophe. Very niche, but very real. Let's get into some of the healing and recovery and strength peptides. Stuff people will swear heals you faster than thyme and Tylenol. Number six, BPC157. Arguably the most popular peptide in existence. The ultimate repair man of peptides. Heals your joints, heals your tendons, heals your gut. Tons of people who love it, tons of people who don't. Number seven, TV500. This is more of a full body healer. It's a partner to BPC157. They're usually blended together. Helps full body repair and tissue healing. It's upregulated in tissues that are trying to heal, at least in animal studies. There's lots of people out there who claim it does really, really great things for them. Now, if you were worrying we weren't going to talk about immunity, worry no more. Number eight, KPV. KPV is a fragment of a hormone called alpha MSH. Look that up. It does really cool things. It upregulates melanocy production, which tans your skin, can decrease inflammation, and upregulate immune function. Supposedly, it can be neuroprotective and can influence your libido. It's actually being highly researched for intestinal inflammation, things like Crohn's disease and irritable bowel disease in general. Number nine, thyosin alpha 1. This is another immune modulating peptide. It's been researched for its role in upregulating components of the immune system so you can fight off infections better. This is one that people generally say, I think it's helping, but I'm not actually sure. All right, the ones that make you stronger, recover faster, and increase your muscle mass. Number 10, CJC1 1295 and number 11 often come blended together because they're very synergistic. They upregulate growth hormone and IGF-1 which together influence strength, muscle mass, endurance, and recovery. Number 12, MOS C. This is a mitochondrial peptide made in your mitochondria. You will make more mitochondria using this and in doing so, you should have more energy, endurance, and it might be anti-aging even. Number 13, IGF LR3. This is a long acting form of the hormone IGF-1. Bodybuilders use this for muscle growth and recovery. This is not a casual peptide, guys. Has some serious downsides to it. Please look that up. Don't try it unless you're serious. Number 14, epitolon. This supposedly helps with lengthening your tieumirs and melatonin upregulation. That's right. It helps people sleep. Sometimes that backfires though. Sometimes it goes the other way. I guess it's like when you have ADHD and you take a medicine that's supposed to wire you, but all it does is calms you down. I don't know that I would take this unless I was really desperate. Next up, some brain candy. 15 is Selink. I actually tried this once and I didn't really know what I was trying it for. I thought it was supposed to be for focus, but really it's an anti-anxiety peptide. When I actually looked into it, I was blown away because it's a Russian peptide that supposedly works just as well, if not better, than benzoazipines, which is like Xanax and Adavan. Now, some people report having a lot less daily anxiety when they use it, but there's really mixed results. Some people have worse anxiety. I'm not sure that I would try this one again. Number 16, CAX. This is kind of like taking Adderall. can give focus and cognition improvements, but it wears off easily and you still crash when it does. Number 17, GHK copper. This is a copper peptide. It has hair and skin benefits only when used in a cream. In my honest opinion, I'm not sure it works when you inject it for those reasons. Just stick to the creams if you want better skin. 18. PT-141. It works on the brain for libido, but it can also give you a weird sensation down there. Be careful with this one. It also makes you nauseous. Number 19, melanotan 2. This one upregulates melanin. This is actually what PT141 was derived from. It tans your skin. But be careful with this one, too, because people report seeing new moles or seeing existing ones change, which is too scary for somebody who has a medical degree. So, I'm not sure I would ever try that, but I have seen other people use it and they definitely looked tan. And last, but definitely not least, number 20, Kiss Pepsin 10. This peptide tells your brain to release gonadotropen releasing hormone, which tells the pituitary to release FSH and LH, which stimulates sperm production in men and ovulation in women. So, it's being heavily researched for use in IVF and fertility in general. And people use it for boosting their testosterone up. That's my rapidfire list of the 20 most popular peptides I think are worth knowing something about, just enough to be dangerous, I suppose. Now, listen, this is not medical advice from me to you. Just a really cool topic. Please, please, please don't go trying these willy-nilly. Do your research. Talk to people who have tried them. Know what you're wanting out of them before you try them. And maybe micro dose them before you go all in. Listen, every cool thing that can happen from these things can also backfire on you and cause the opposite thing to happen. But now you got ammo for your next peptide discussion. Hey, listen. If you like this video, please hit like for me, subscribe to my channel, and I'll keep talking about things that maybe you would want your doctor to know about. Maybe you just feel better about your doctor knowing about the things that you're doing or the things that you're interested in. That's how I see it. Anyway, I'm Dr. Ashley Frzy. I run a direct primary care clinic in Mesa, Arizona. Direct primary care is where your doctor works directly for you rather than your insurance companies. And listen, not every direct primary care doctor is going to know much about peptides. Just me. If you want to know more about direct primary care, there are some links in my descriptions. You guys have a good
