# Retatrutide, Not Just Another Peptide - Unbreakable Podcast 162

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

[Music] So today I made a post about Reddit True Tide and it's right now going all of you guys if you're struggling with a weight issue or you've just tried everything and you're apprehensive. Listen, for almost 11 years I've never let anybody down on this platform. I tell you the truth. I'll tell you what to do and I tell you how to fix it. Since my smash work days, I've never come out here and given you anything that doesn't work. So, if I endorse it or I tell you how to do it and it works, you can take it to the bank that it works. You guys have to apply it. It's like all of you guys asking me for a shoulder fix or a knee fix and then I give it to you and I get messages from one side of the equation going it works and I get messages from the other side going I haven't tried it yet. You can't like it's not going to do itself. But Reddit truth tide is what I'm going to talk about today because I made the post it went nuts and everybody wants the quick fix and I'm fine with that if it works. If it causes damage don't like some of the barbaric things that people have done, right? Like gastric bypass, lap bands, what? Lipo suction. Holy crap. These are so barbaric and so catastrophic for your body. So now that there is science that's working in your favor, you should take advantage of it if it's going to do. But not everybody needs to do this before you guys are talking about how you're 8% and you just want to get down to the last 4% instead. I don't think that's smart at all. I think that's just a problem with your discipline. You do what you're going to do and I'll help you and support you as much as I can. I'll give you everything I've got. I speak really fast. I go over all this stuff really fast and a lot of times I have a Texas accent because that's where I live. Then I can't help it. So if you ask me to slow down, listen faster, right? And at the end I will tell you exactly where to go to get more help. I hope that if that's fair, great. If not, swipe on and don't listen. But that's how this is going to work because I want to help you. And yes, I own a company, Elite Biogenics. It's a huge company and my business partner and I own this and we're going to take over the world with this. It's going to be amazing and we're well on our way. But it's in-house all American made, packaged, sent out, everything. So, you're not getting some weird offshore bizarre chemical. And it's all tested right in Arizona. It's done really well because I actually give a [ __ ] Above all, do no harm. I apply that. I've said it before in every aspect of my life, which means every aspect of your life because I want you guys to win. But that's because Savage Dad wants you guys to win. And you guys are like a bunch of children that are looking for ways to win without doing any of the work. You just want the win to show up. Listen, if you could wake up, you're 300 pounds and tomorrow you wake up looking like Ryan Reynolds, Brad Pit, [ __ ] awesome. Show me that it doesn't exist, but that's what you guys want. So, I'm trying to help you get there as fast as possible. A lot of times, the problem isn't that you're overweight because you don't know what to do. You know what to do. Stop eating a bunch of food and start moving a little more. But it's tiring to hear non-stop coaches go, "Eat less, move more, blah blah blah [ __ ] blah." I get it. You're overweight. Because here's why. Your body at the cellular level, at the hormonal level, is working against you and it's been winning. So today, we're going to stop all of that. I'll go over everything line by line, and I'm going to be a scalpel and a shotgun at the same time and just obliterate all your excuses and your lies. I'm going to hack them all out and I'm going to blow your [ __ ] mind on how this actually works. This isn't motivational. This is a tactical operating manual I'm trying to give you for using Redat True Tide to make fat loss something that's automatic and permanent because that's how this works. If you play this right, and by the way, it is a 6 to 8month program. If you sit there and say, "Well, can I do it in 3 weeks?" No. And if you start taking gargantuan amounts and wondering why you're puking into your cereal bowl in the morning, well, that's part of the problem. Okay? If motivation worked, listen, I'll say this out loud for all the people thinking this. If motivation worked, you wouldn't be fat. Agreed? You don't need more hustle or more grind. You don't need a new ab routine or another P90X variation or Sha T or some YouTube guru jumping and doing all kinds of crazy workouts that you stare at and never do anything. You need to stop playing checkers with a body that's playing chess against you. Because every time that you fail a diet, that's not you failing, man. That's your hormones dragging your psychology through the mud like it's a hostage. Your body has one job. just one survival. It's going to be people carrying drinks that are about four feet tall that look like a trumpet. They're going to have a cookie in their hand the size of a pie and they're going to be smoking and about two bills overweight and they're still alive. Human beings are very hard to kill. So, you're not failing. Your body is doing its job. It's fighting for survival. And fat is stored fuel. And if your brain says, "I don't like how I look." Your body goes, "I don't care." Your body is going to defend that like it's the Pentagon. So every time you cut calories or train hard or do anything that's trying to pull that out of your system, your system freaks out. Your biology goes nuts. So your hunger hormones spike, your energy tanks, your cravings hit like just freight train after freight train. And what do most people do? They assume that they're weak. They [ __ ] talk themselves all day, all night, look at things that make themselves feel better, and then they guilt spiral, and then they quit because nobody's ever told them the truth. Nobody's ever taught you the truth. Fat loss is a hormonal equation, not a discipline contest. Yeah, I get it. Listen, most of you guys don't have god-tier discipline like me or Gogggins or anybody else that's like this. That's okay. I used to get really pissed off because not everybody wanted to be like me. And then I realized that's the most ignorant thing I could ever think is that everybody wants to be just like me. No, you don't. But you do want to be the best version of you. And if you don't feel like you're there, you know you're lying. Every time you look in the mirror, you go, "I'm a liar." Every time you look in the mirror, you go, you know, I could be better. And then you start trashtalking yourself. And that selft talk, the problem with that is you're listening. So you start to buy into it. So I'm going to hand you a weapon today, read a true tide, and we're going to fix all this. And maybe some of you guys have heard of it, maybe you haven't. This is as an adjunct to the post I made on social media today because I want people to have more information. Maybe Tzepide. They're solid. They help. They do a pretty damn good job. But nothing nothing like reatride. Nothing. This is so different. It's not a better bandage. It's a system reboot. It's the easiest way to explain it. And here's why. Redatride is a triple aagnist, right? So it stimulates three different receptors. This is important because none of the other ones do this. They call them side effects because then you don't think about there's only effects. You just don't like some of them. That's all. So, it hits these three. Let me go over them real quick. So, GLP1 tells your brain you're full. Uh, slows gastric emptying, reduces cravings, enhances your insulin. GIP supports insulin sensitivity. Big deal by the way, especially nowadays with all the stuff we eat. Improves glucose response, also a big deal. That works in conjunction with the liver. And glucagon, which is the third one. And it enhances fat metabolism. So, if you can't metabolize the fat, it doesn't matter what you make sense. So glucagon is the third one. This is huge because it boosts energy expenditure, signals your body to burn stored fat. Let's say they're not taking testosterone. Instead, they're taking the classic clenbuterol and thyroid hormone, right? T3. So now they're taking thyroid hormone and clbuterol. Cluterol cranks up your metabolism, but it does cardiac damage. So I'm not a big fan of that stuff. If you've ever taken it, by the way, thymus and beta 4 now repairs a lot of cardiac damage. Listen to me. But thyroid hormone is non- selective. So if you are not taking some kind of TRT, your body is going to chew up muscle tissue just as easily as fat tissue. In fact, muscle tissue is easier. Your body is opportunistic. So it looks for ways to do things the easiest way possible. That's why your workout is only good as the first time you do it. Because what rea tide does is it flips your internal switches from store fat to burn it mercilessly, like relentlessly. It's [ __ ] awesome. It makes you not hungry, like at all. More energized. It knocks down inflammation. That's one of the coolest off label effects that I can ever explain is the fact that you don't have any inflammation. It makes you biologically primed and your endocrine system primed to just shred fat like a furnace that's just doing rails of crack. It doesn't need any more willpower. In fact, it removes the need for willpower to be honest. And if you look at the numbers, listen, because in a world full of feelings, data is the grown man's compass, right? So, if you're only looking at feelings, you're not making any educated decisions. You're making decisions based on how you feel in the moment, which changes by the moment. So if you look at semaglutide which is a GLP agonist GLP1 agonist only that's all it affects average fat loss is 10 to 15% of body weight with a massive amount of adverse effects tzepatide is a GLP1 and a gip so now it's two average fat loss is about 20% of body weight total body weight right so it's not water or anything like that it's body weight reduide GLP1 gip and glucagon average fat loss 24% plus of body weight and that's in clinical trials where people are barely trying clinical trials aren't how most of you guys are going to do it they're very regulated and there were people they just want to see the results of doing compound X or procedure Y or this ABC what that means in just plain English if you weigh 240 you're looking at 50 to 60 lbs of fat loss without white knuckling every meal because you can't eat anything every day you get to stare at a piece of lettuce and lick an apple and stare at an almond for dinner. That's your day. Nobody likes that. So, I'm sure I hear some keyboard warrior that's about ready to jump in here and go, "But bro, you can lose that without a drug. That's cheating." Sure. Listen, dumbass. If that's you, you guys in your That's cheating. They're on TRT. That's cheating. as they're fat, working 10 times harder, 100 times more injured, and [ __ ] up their body because they already have low testosterone because of the environment we live in. They're not cheating. They're smarter than you. You just don't like it because you're scared of you think taking an oral, by the way, is better for you. [ __ ] stupid. Alpha alkalated 17 molecule, massively hepattoxic when it looks at when you when you're coming down to peeds. I'll just leave you with that, okay? Stop thinking orals and rubbing a cream on your ball bag is better than just a plain dose of testosterone. That's it. You guys have to learn how to make chemistry and technology work for you versus going against it just because you don't like it and it's different. You know, most people actually go against things because they're just different. That's all. Most people will argue to defend their position even though their position is wrong, just so they're not wrong. So when people go, "Bro, that's cheating. You can lose all that weight without a drug." You sure can. But you can also walk 30 mi instead of driving your damn car to work. No one gives you a trophy for suffering unnecessarily. Just so we're clear, there are a ton of other ways that you can voluntarily suffer to build your character and your confidence, which I absolutely think you should, and stack receipts behind you so you can look back behind you and go, "There's my proof." If you've got a tool that makes your biology your ally instead of your enemy, use it. Don't try and prove the world how disciplined you are. Just get the [ __ ] results. Yes, I'm a doctor and I curse. This guy's a doctor. Dude, I've forgotten more than you know. If that's you saying that, just because I'm bald and I got a beard and I look like Kratos and I'm gritty. Listen, stop judging books, man. That's part of your problem. That's why your life is miserable. Let me go. This is what happens when you start read a true tie. Just so we have a kind of picture of how this works cuz people the biggest fear for people and fear is the most powerful drug ever. It works to your detriment unless you use it right the way. But most people don't do things just because they're afraid. Like even on Elite Biogenics, just so you know, we prefer that you pay with Bitcoin for so many reasons. Number one is we prefer it. And just to be clear, go ahead and get it somewhere else if you want your stuff somewhere else. I've just never let you down. So, if I own something and I put my stamp on it, you can bet your ass it's as legit as it gets. But we prefer Bitcoin. You know how you use Bitcoin? Go to Moonay. This takes 2 minutes. You go to Moonay. Buy Bitcoin with your credit. You don't even need a wallet with a credit card. It'll tell you where do you want the Bitcoin to go. You buy the exact amount of Bitcoin required to purchase whatever it is you're buying off of Elite Biogenics. put my wallet number for the company. It's not me. It goes to my company. You have to pay for my [ __ ] dude. I'm not giving it to you for free. Pay for it with Bitcoin. It pays my team. They send out your product. If it's over 99 bucks, it's free. Ship free in the continental US. By the way, that's how easy this is. You can use zel and you can use Venmo. We don't take credit cards. Too many processors are in bed with big pharma and they don't want people using research chemicals for their hamsters and Shetland ponies if you get what I'm saying. If you know by the way if you don't figure it out what I just said. But the point is you want to buy any of this stuff use Bitcoin. It's faster. It's easier. And you know what people say just so I'll put this out there just so you understand. When you sign up for Moonay you go to the app store Android or iPhone. You click Moonay. You download it and then you enter your information, whatever it is. Hey, I am John Doe living at this address. Whatever the hell it's you're have to put your address in anyway. Where the hell is it going to get shipped to? And then when it says verify your identity, here's where you guys freak out. Oh, it's asking for my social security number. Mhm. You know the credit card you have in your wallet? You had to give your driver's license to get that. You know what you had to give to get your driver's license? social security number, birth certificate, usually a bill or two or three from where you live or a mortgage statement. You have to give so much to get your driver's license and you need to give your driver's license to get a credit card. So, if you guys are freaking out because you have to give your social security number, you already gave it. Every time you use your credit card, somebody gets your social. You guys are so worried about your identity being stolen. If somebody wants your identity, they're going to take it. Just so we're clear, you have to give more ID to get a credit card than you have to set up Moon Pay. So, here's what you do now. Verify your identity. Put your name and your phone number. Don't give a spoof number. Just give the re your real email. And I'm not keeping it. They don't even keep your info. They do it to make sure you're not some terrorist and you are who you say you are. Once you've done that, go to method of payment. Choose whatever one you want. I don't know. Moon Pay has a ton of ways of paying. I would just say use your credit card. Use your Mastercard. Done. pay whatever it is. I don't know what RETA is on my site right now. I think it's 149 bucks. 149 bucks plus whatever taxes are involved in the state you're in. You buy it'll you go back to Elite Biogenics. Look at how much Bitcoin. There's a little double square which means copy, tap it, then go tap that amount into how much you're buying. You don't even need to guess and then buy it. Verify it. Cuz if you buy the wrong amount, that's on you. If you send it to the wrong wallet address, that's on you. I have no sympathy for you. I want to have I want to give people business or I want to give people products that actually deserve the product, not people that are like, I'm trying to figure out how to put the powder in to my hamster. Right. Once you've done that, hit me. It sends it right to the wallet for Elite Biogenics. We already know what you bought. You use the now payment. It's a big giant button at the bottom. Now payment is how you start this whole thing. put in your cart, hit now payment, go to Moonay, buy whatever crypto, copy the amount from Elite Biogenics, drop it into the window in Moon, buy it, put the wallet address for Elite Biogenics where it's going, double check to make sure you're not an idiot, hit buy, bang, you're done. My team will verify it in 5 to 15 minutes. It shows up at your house. That's how easy this is. But the beauty of Bitcoin is there's no issues. Not for you. For me, it's safer, faster, and used globally. There's no weird exchanges or no credit card flags on your end or mine. So, I do this to make it easier. There you go. You want to use Venmo? You can, but I'm not going to keep it up very long cuz I don't like Venmo. It's big. And Zel. Yeah, I have Zel. I think the email address is supportpartanarmmyylc.com. Use Zel if you want. I just I would use Bitcoin. It's just you guys should be using Bitcoin anyway for so many things. Anyway, let me get back to this so you can understand. Here's what it feels like to use red a true true tie just practically just an eight. So, let's go the first two weeks, right? So, weeks one and two hunger goes to pretty much zero. Really zero. You guys go, "Holy [ __ ] this can't be normal." A lot of people the first week or two freak out and they try and eat anyway because you this isn't real. It's got to be psychosmatic. It's not. Your hunger grows to pretty much zero. Your food obsession dies. You're halfway through a meal and you just kind of I'm done. You don't feel bad. I'm just done. Your cravings don't exist. Gone. You feel completely untethered, which is probably one of the coolest things I can tell people is you will feel unshackled from all of those things, those demons you're fighting to keep yourself from eating the food. And it's jarring at first. It really is because you've been at war with hunger for years. Now it's just gone. Salad. It's like somebody turned off the volume. And then when you get into weeks three, four, five, six, maybe seven, you start seeing all that visibly go away. Energy gets stable. You don't have these peaks and valleys. And you see the fat melting off of you. Your mood goes through the roof because your blood sugar isn't a roller coaster. Yeah. See, these are the things that people don't tell you. And you start feeling like you're in control for the first time in, I don't know, 5, 10, 15, 20 years. Some of you guys, I've had clients that I've go through this with and they go, "Holy [ __ ] I've never felt so good in my life." And then you get into the, you know, week eight, nine, 10, 12, 14, and your friends start asking you what you're doing. You're gonna have two friends. One that goes, "Dude, holy [ __ ] what are you doing, Alice, you look fantastic. What are you doing?" And the other side, I don't know what you're doing, man, but I I don't think it's healthy. You're losing weight too fast. You're looking emaciated. And that's going to be your fat friend that doesn't want to do it that tried to talk you out of it. That's the same person that tells you going to the gym every day is bad for you. People are going to ask you, they ask you what you're doing and then you're going to pull out clothes that you haven't worn since probably high school. Your face looks different. Really just don't have a big old round face. Your mind gets clear because your system's functioning better. And then you go up into month six. 6 months is the minimum. I think I tell everybody six months. 90-day programs, you spend 89 days counting all the days until you get to stop what you're doing. 90 days does not change somebody's psychology for the most part. They spend 90 days, 89 days counting days until they can go back to eating cheesecake, Oreos, drinking beer, and doing all the things they miss doing. So, keep that in mind for your training programs. It took me a year to change my life. And I guarantee you I'm more gritty than you are. And I do have God tier will. I'm not saying it to go, "Look at me. I'm so great." I'm saying it because I didn't give myself a choice. With this, you don't need that. And you get better results. Why would you fight that? So, at about month five, six, you're not trying to eat less. There's going to come a time where you're pushing the plate away. You're like, I got to eat less. You're not It just happens. You do actually eat less. Not starving, just eat less. You don't You're not afraid or weird with your emotions around food. You don't get twitchy and anxiety around food. You're not afraid to go out and have dinner with people going, "I'm going to overeat because I have no self-control." You feel like a machine. That's what you do. You feel like a [ __ ] Terminator. And you don't see food as this emotional bond that you have with it. It's just fuel. Whether it's a cheesecake or it's a hamburger or a slice of pizza, it doesn't matter. That's the goal, though. The goal isn't it's not just fat loss, you guys. The goal is the narrative that they've been teaching you all the time. This fat identity, you want to cut that loose. You know, it's funny. And I I probably need read a true tide. The non-swear version keeps me from cussing, but [ __ ] I cuss. So that's just the way it is. Sometimes I think I shouldn't. I go, it's me. You don't like the way I sound? Don't listen. My information is still accurate. So here's the problem. This is the part that everybody complicates and you guys have to stop. Please, let me explain how to eat like a grown ass adult with better things to do with their time. This is easy, dude. I'm going to blow your mind. This requires two calculations and you can eat anything you want. You don't have to eat a salad. You can eat candy bars and ice cream as long as you satisfy one area first protein. So, take your body weight. I did this before just the other day. Take your body weight in pounds, multiply it by 12. That's your daily caloric target, right? Right. So 200 lb. I'm 200 lb. If I wanted to lose weight, which I don't, that would be 2,400. That's my calories for the day. Period. So use somebody that's a little bit bigger. That's should probably lose weight at 40, right? Unless they're a big person. So 240 * 12 2880. That's your calories per day. Non-negotiable. That's your ceiling. That's your absolute limit. Don't have to reach it. That's your limit. Step two is your protein. Take your body weight in pounds again and multiply it by 1. So, 240 lbs, 240 gram of protein per day. There's your floor. Okay. Everything else is optional. And if you understand what that means, great. We could stop here. If not, let me explain that. Once you hit that protein number, you can eat whatever the hell you want within that calorie cap. So, you can eat anything. 240 gram of protein. After that, eat whatever you want. As long as you don't go past 2880 for your total calories of the day. You want ice cream? Knock yourself. Pizza. Go ahead. Just earn it with the protein first and then stay under your caloric budget. That's how you have to look at this, right? You have a calorie budget. You have a financial budget. You have a [ __ ] budget that I talked about the other day where you got to stop giving out so many [ __ ] You're not in like fat prison. You're in fat rehab. Read a true tide is that's your [ __ ] probation officer. That's how you got to look at this. Right? If you think it's any other way, I don't know what to tell you. It takes away the cravings, the compulsion, and that chemical fog that happens, right? But you still have to show up and follow some basic rules. You can't sit there and smash calories all day and go whatever. I don't care. So, you have to treat this like it's a serious thing. And then just apply yourself. There is I've been 52 years I've been alive and I've been a doc for 25 plus years. I've never seen anything so fantastic and so easily applied and now so misused in the wrong direction than this. And yet this works so well. Learn how to eat for performance not comfort and put your protein before everything else and you keep your calories under that c. You can't go wrong. People will look at you if you are three bills and they'll look at you in a year and go, "Holy [ __ ] who is this person?" Right? but he's in high school and they read his yearbook out the party instead, right? He switches the yearbooks with Tim, I think. And then he shows up at her house in I think a Ferrari and he's all fit and lean. That's what this does without the Hollywood magic. So, let me go over how to use it. I'm a little leery to go over this cuz some people misconstrue this. And under I'll say this. Here's my caveat. Under no means is this meant to be medical advice, diagnosis, treatment, prescription, nothing. This is for hamsters, shetland ponies, and alligators and kittens, puppies, and all the stuff that you want to do. This is purely anecdotal research. You feel me? If I was going to do this for my pony, five milligrams per week, that's where I would start. Start low. Build very slowly. That's important. Otherwise, the pony gets nauseiated. You're not a tough guy because you started at 8 milligrams and then puked into your coffee. That doesn't make you tough. It just makes you stupid and honestly quite ignorant. And then there's something called titration. If you took organic chemistry, you didn't see anything but titrations. It was But here's the titration schedule. It's basically means just titrating up. So the first four weeks 0.5 from weeks five to eight you could go nine if you're feeling a little off but 5 to 8 1.5 milligrams. This is per week for your animal right for your chitlin for your kangaroo. Weeks 9 to 12 3 milligrams per week. Weeks 13 plus right? This goes on until you are where you want to be. 4.5 milligrams per week if it's tolerated. Listen, if you're sick and nauseated and you feel like hammered dog crap all day long, this isn't a fun experience. Why would you do that to yourself? Don't do that. It's not a race. Trust me, you are reprogramming everything and you're setting that thermostat to a new normal. You're training your system, right? Think slow is smart, fast is stupid, right? If you push the dose too quickly, here's the problem. your GI tract is going to go to war and file a formal complaint via the nausea and the dizziness and you know what it could be worse. You could go whole kind of all kinds of sideways. So just keep that in mind if you haven't figured this out yet. And maybe people don't do this, maybe people do. I don't know. But I actually give a [ __ ] about people that listen to my stuff. I'm not just going to tell you things because I want you to buy my product or join my mastermind or anything. I tell you this because I actually give a [ __ ] and I realize the world is filled with people trying to open your wallet and take money out of it. I want you to open your wallet and give me money because I earned it. Not just stay consistent when you do this, right? And same time like same day, same time every single week. That's the easiest way to manage this stuff because when you start getting variability, you start making mistakes. subcutaneous belly, right? Love your pony. The belly of the pony. You can go love him belly of the pony. I would just set a timer on my phone. Treat it like brushing your teeth. Just make it non-negotiable. So, one of the questions I get is, "How long do I do this, right?" Minimum 6 months minimum. You guys can think otherwise. I'm sure somebody out there is going to be like, "No, just crank it up. You can do it for like 3 months." Don't. Don't do that. I actually care about the long long-term effects of this. So I go, how do we get somebody to 100 years old, strong, healthy, powerful, undeniable, not how do we get the maximum benefit in the shortest period of time and have them kick off at 40? Just not willing to do that. You can't rewire your biology 30 days. You can't. You've got 20 to 30 years of poor hormonal patterns. 6 months is just it's just the reset button. It's what's required. That's the phase where your new appetite, your new body, your new habits all cement into place and the concrete cures, right? Some people are going to want to run it longer. That's fine. Just make sure that you're not using it as a crutch forever because that's easy to do. Use it as this bridge from, as I always say, right? Chaos to control. Once you have control, you're fine. It's like if you go, I eat 3,000 calories every day and that's my calorie cap and that keeps me lean and fit and strong and I know how much protein I eat every day. doesn't matter. You can eat whatever you want. You're not limited, which means you never diet, which means you have nothing to quit and you have no cravings and nothing bothers you because you just eat whatever you want. That's where you guys struggle is you think you have to eat these weird complicated diets. You know, you're drinking coconut water and eating salads and the whole eat like a king at breakfast and a popper at dinner and all the weird things that you guys do. And if you've seen the slab of bread I eat in the morning, homemade bread, butter, honey, I eat eight to 10 eggs. I eat that like I eat that three four times a day. Pizza. I had sushi last night. The other day I had burgers and steak. You saw potatoes. And you guys just keep under the caloric load. That's all you have to do. You guys over complicate it because you want to weigh out to say it doesn't work for me. So, let me just touch on alternate effects. Otherwise, I'm being dishonest. I've seen animals get nauseated. Their digestion slows down. And it might take a little while to recover. Some fatigue at the beginning. Sometimes people get backed up, constipated. Just hydrate more with that. That one's easy. Just take care of the system and the system's going to work for you and this is going to be the greatest thing you've ever done. This is your body when you have these weird effects. Remember, no side effects. These are just effects that aren't the most desirable. It's your body adjusting and adapting to a completely new chemical ecosystem, hormonal ecosystem, right? It's not broken. It's just updating. It's like when your phone updates. If you ask, "What if I feel weird?" Good. You should. You should feel super weird. You've never felt normal. You just forgot what normal feels like. But you should feel weird. This is your system learning to function without being ruled by sugar cravings, emotional baggage, and binges, and all these eating patterns that you've installed in your system that have been causing you all kinds of problems. And next thing you know, you are part of my 600 lb life and telling everybody to accept you. Just ignore all the fear-mongers and the bullshitters and the liars that come out here and say, "I'm an expert. Don't listen to this guy. Don't listen to that guy." I'm just telling you the truth. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics? Great. You don't? Great. You want to listen to me? Great. You don't? Great. But you know what? I'm a walking talking billboard of exactly how I conduct myself. And I've always shot from the hip, straight and honest. Like it or not, even when I [ __ ] up, I own my [ __ ] So look at the people that are telling you the information. Remember, most of the people want you fat and tired and extremely dependent because that's how systems stay very profitable, which is probably going to get me tagged on this video, but it does. Fat loss. Here's the ultimate ROI. This is some of my favorite stuff. You get hours of your day back that aren't spent obsessing over food, losing your mind in your cubicle at work going, "God, I just can't wait for another four hours until I can eat." You stop negotiating with your cravings and making decisions with emotion and pain and struggle and you start making them with clarity and focus with drive and ambition where you want to go, what you want to do, and how you want your life to go. You don't have this emotional distortion. It might not sound like a big deal, but I think the number of conversations I've had with people that I consult with one-on-one or in my mastermind about this, it's in the thousands. You get your self-respect back, not because of willpower, but because your biology isn't sabotaging your effort. Your endocrine system isn't going to war with you anymore. You feel clean and powerful and light and strong and decisive for the first time in your [ __ ] life. And holy [ __ ] your business grows because your brain bandwidth isn't, I don't know, wasted on food. You guys, I understand when I hear you guys talk about it, and believe me, I grind on people that are overweight all the time because I can't stand the decisions you made to get there. But if you just keep running into walls and you get to a point where you're going, "I'm just going to accept who I am and it's costing you your health." Somebody else is counting on you. Don't you dare [ __ ] do that. So, you do everything in your power to change that because the biggest level of self-respect is to take care of yourself because other people love and care about you. You don't just look better, you operate better when you do this. And when you operate better, you win. Because let me explain something you probably already know, but honestly think you need to hear it again. You don't need more hacks. You don't need more discipline right now in this area for this moment till you get your [ __ ] together. You don't need more discipline. You need a biological alignment. You need an endocrine system reset. You need a neurological system reset. Read a true tie doesn't change who you are. Just so you know. It takes the friction away that's stopping you from becoming who you were supposed to be in the first place. It just makes the work easier, right? It greases the wheels. I'll give you the the short list of what to do. And by the way, if you guys aren't joining my webinar on Sundays at 4:00 Central cuz I'm in Texas, Dallas, Texas is the greatest place ever. So, I got nothing else to tell you about that. It just is. But you guys should. And yep, I'm going to give you all I got in that webinar and then I'm going to pitch you because I think you should join my mastermind. Or you could just join my mastermind from this. If you haven't figured out that I actually know damn well what I'm talking about by now, I don't think you ever will. But if you want to join my mastermind, which I think you should, you get in for 1,500 bucks for a year, you just have to send me a message. Send the word beast. B E A S T on Instagram. You want information about REA True Tide, send the word rea. All taken care of for you. It'll lead you right to the place where you can get all the help you need and get all the guidance for your animals. I mean, this is definitely a different kind of a podcast I usually do, but I want you guys to understand how important this is. So, let me go over the execution. Take your body weight, times it by 12. That equals your calories for the day. Your body weight in pounds, times it by 1, that equals your protein. Do the math to figure out what your protein is. If I weigh 200 lb, there's four calories per gram, right, of protein. So, that would be 800 calories. Do the math however you want to figure it out. Then inject your retatride weekly into your pony. Eat your protein. Stay under your caloric cap. Do that for 6 months. That's it. You're welcome. I think What are we at? What is it? 1 2 3 4 five six five steps. Six steps. That's it. I don't even give a [ __ ] if you go to the gym. Should you? Yeah, I really think you should at least go for a walk every night. One mile, 16 to 17 minute pace for so many reasons. number one, the skeletal muscle pump and circulation and keeping your system working. And number two is it'll help you lose weight faster. You don't need to journal or meditate under the stars or listen to some weird gospel or have a sound bowl or zamir or an Enya CD playing in the background. You don't need to do you don't need a vision board and burn some sage in the corner. Whatever you guys do, you guys do some weird [ __ ] and you listen to these gurus tell you that's how they did it. They didn't. Most of them did it by doing the work or the fact that they're 22. And if they're not jacked at 22, there's already a problem. You need to just take the damn shot. That's what you need to do. Take the shot. Eat like a warrior and stop letting your hormones just beat the [ __ ] out of you and just knock you just submitting you all the time. This isn't about losing weight. It's about removing the version of you that let all this happen. That's now you know all about this. You have no excuses. I spent 40 minutes driving this into your skull cuz I genuinely care. So remove the version of you that let this person show up. Just kill that [ __ ] and then don't look back cuz you have all the tools now. You really do. You got no excuses. Hope that helps you. I got to go. Never miss. [Music]
