# MOTS-C or Retatrutide Which One Is Better - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

I think if you just took a second and stepped back and took a thousand foot view and actually went, "Wow, this actually makes a lot more sense." That's why I'm here. I'm trying to give you so much education that you know more than 99% of the doctors out there because 99% of the doctors out there are idiots. Really, listen, everybody just shut up and listen for a second. Your doctor, a good chance your doctor's an idiot. I'm a doctor. A real doctor. I don't know if there's a fake one. I don't know. I could get into the semantics of this. I don't want to cuz somebody's going to get all offended and hurt. But like I see real patients and I've done it for decades and I'm old enough to say that and I've seen being a physician radically change and to the point where now it's how quickly can we see the patient and get them on the next drug or the next protocol that's going to keep them sick under the illusion that we're actually making them better when in fact it's really managed decline. If you really make somebody better, if you allow their body to function the way it's designed to function, they don't need anything that you're giving them once they're fixed. And if you really understand that from a physiological point of view, like if you go, well, but you have to take peptides all the time. You don't have to take anything all the time. You don't have to drink water or eat all the time either. But I'm looking at like when you hear me talk about forever peptides, that's because I want to be healthier and stronger. There is not a drug on the planet, not one. Listen to me, not one single drug on the planet, 0% of them, have long-term benefit over the course of your lifetime if you stay on them forever. None. Not one. Not one. Find me one. You cannot. And if you get in my comments and you start, "What about this? What about this?" You're wrong. Stop defending something you don't know enough about, and you just know enough to be dangerous to yourself and everybody that happens to listen to you. It's like the gym bros that contact me. They want to do business with me. Oh, I have all these gyms. I own all these gyms and I'm going to help blow you up, man. What can I do to share your brand? Yeah, but you don't understand what I do and I take what I do very seriously. So, I really don't know if I want you representing me because you're just going to drag my name through the mud. Forget it. Like, okay, so just so you know what I'm talking about before I go on anymore. MC and Redat Tide, when to take which one? because they have some similar actions and like they both make you violently insulin sensitive in in a fantastic way, which is the premise for a whole lot of health. But let me explain them both and explain when to take which one and why and what they both do with certain chronic diseases and metabolic problems and dysfunction and syndromes and even cognitive decline or just overall health and why they work so well and why there's not a drug on the planet that can go toe-to-toe with any peptide on Earth. None. And that's the problem. And that's what scares big pharma is because it doesn't make them the trillions of dollars that they're so accustomed to bilking you guys for under the illusion that you have to go see your doctor every two months for another checkup, another blood test, another genetic this volley of genetic tests that you think you need to test for. I get so many of you guys sending me, I have this gene and I have that gene. So what? Before you knew about it, were you surviving? Were you thriving? Were you kicking ass and taking names? 95% of you guys the answer was yes. you found out about it and you went, "Holy crap." And then now you have to be on all these things because they say you have to. Are you out of your mind? Not a chance. Not a chance for the most part. So just listen to me because I don't come out here for me. I come out here for you and above all do no harm. And I genuinely love and care about you guys. You think I would sacrifice this much of my life and my time away from my family, my beautiful wife who I adore, my children who I just don't ever get to see enough of. if I genuinely didn't give a crap about you guys. So to get in my comments and argue for any reason whatsoever is infantile because you're arguing with the person that has your best interest in mind because they love you. So I I don't know what to say to that. But if you're one of those guys that are doing it, honestly, grow up, man. Grow up. Go argue with a bunch of people on TikTok. Stop defending being wrong or stop defending that you're right when you're damn well wrong and you just don't want to admit it. Just learn something new, baby. But listen to me. So MC and Red True Tai, they're both fantastic for lack of a better word. No, your doctor is an idiot. I'm going to tell you right now, most of you doctors, if you're listening to this, you're an idiot. Don't get mad. I don't care if you spent 15 years in med school. I don't care how great you are at whatever surgery it is you do when it comes to health, you're you're a muppet. You're just a coconut. You can't do anything. And I'm a 50/50 guy as far as blaming you for that because you didn't take the initiative to go, you know what, what I'm learning is not I need to learn more. You didn't take the initiative to do that. But at the same time, you're in a school that doesn't take the initiative to teach you real healthcare. Caught in a quandry right now because part of me wants to beat the crap out of all of you and the other part of me wants to help educate you. Since you're not in front of me and I can't smack you in the mouth, I guess I'm going to educate you, right? But listen, your doctor, if you're listening to your doctor all the time for and people go, "Oh, it's not very good advice." I don't really care what you think then. Doctor's an idiot. No, seriously. He's listen, this is what's happening for most of these people. He's treating the puddle on that's on your kitchen floor while the pipes and the walls have busted through the drywall and they're just pouring water everywhere and they've done it for a decade. Like high blood sugar, metformin. I already went over that. It's terrible for you. It's not a longevity drug. It's not. You guys need to stop taking Metformin thinking it's for longevity. And then actually look at what happens when you take Metformin and how it is just a catastrophe for your system. Statins, blood pressure meds, that is mopping. That's not fixing the burst pipe, you guys. It's pathetic. And you guys are paying for the privilege of your own managed decline. Make it make it make sense. Jeez. It's like I feel like just this caged predator right now. Like it drives me nuts. I'm not mopping. That's This is not a podcast about mopping. I'm going to rip out the walls and replace all that plumbing over there that's pissing all over your floors. Two powerful molecules that do not ask your body to change under any circumstances. They force it to change using native signals that your body already knows. Mods metatruide. This is not medicine, you guys. This is like a hostile takeover of your own physiology, your own biology. I'm going to tell you, listen, you need to learn how to become a majority shareholder of your own freaking body. How about that? Is that fair enough? Mod C, listen. You think your destiny is in your nuclear DNA? That is the basic instruction manual that comes with every It's like the IKEA furniture manual and nobody knows how to read it anyway. Your mitochondrial DNA is the secret little appendix sitting in the back written in a language that we're just starting to decipher right now. M C is a mitochondrial derived peptide 16 amino acids long, right? encoded in the mitochondrial genome that transllocates goes into transllocates to the nucleus and rewrites transcriptional programs under duress under stress. You know what that means? When your cells are starving or beat up or poisoned, your mitochondria send out this this SOS signal that alters how all of your main genes express themselves. This is like an evolutionary cheat code for survival. And now you can inject it. You can inject it if you're taking it orally. Take your hand, ball it up, make a fist, and punch yourself right in the face. And the person that sold it to you, listen, 2015, a paper in cell metabolism, this was the starting pistol of this entire thing, man. They showed that it was a critical regulator of metabolic homeostasis, independent of nuclear DNA. Just think about that. You're bypassing the mainframe to access the root level BIOS, the root level operating system that is governing every single thing that's going on this computer is governed by a basic set of programs. That's what you're accessing with MC C. If you don't understand that, maybe I'm just not explaining it, but you guys got to get that. That's how badass this is. That's MC C. Look at renatide. So, while the pharmaceutical industry was patting itself on the back for semiglutide and drewide, you guys stop arguing about how good it is. Stop it. Stop it. Just smack yourself in the mouth. Stop it. It is garbage. They have never been good. They have always been bad. They are appetite suppressants with fancy labeling and an FDA approval, both of which are costing you your life and your health. They do not make you healthy. They demolish your physiology. They crush, they strip away muscle. They annihilate metabolic tissue. And all they leave you with is skinnier, weaker, and just in worse off condition than you were when you started. You would have been better off staying fat. Listen, Redat True Tide is a thermonuclear device. Why do you think Lily is fighting so hard to make sure nobody else can get it? They can completely capture the market. F them right to hell. They're going to make it so it's going to be filled with all kinds of extras that you're never going to know about. That's going to screw you up. Do you know why? Because Reddit True Tide, what did I just call it? A thermonuclear device. This thing completely eradicates anything negative in your system. Let me explain this. This is single chain peptide engineered to be a triple agonist, right? GLP1, GIP, and glucagon. And you know what? Some of you guys might have no idea what that means or you've seen it and they're catchphrasy words. So, I'm going to dumb it down. Don't get offended. GLP1 is the I'm full stop eating signal. IP is the oh, and also process this sugar properly signal. And glucagon by itself, this is important because they work synergistically. And this is where people mess this up all day long. Glucagon by itself is the release stored sugar. We need energy signal. Okay, with me? So alone very useful, very together. This is where people don't get it. They're like, "Aren't you just adding this one thing? Doesn't it just make it's a fancier version of muro monjouro?" No, it's not. Together, in this molecule, it is the perfect storm. The glucagon agonism in the presence in see this is why that nobody tells you this stuff. in the presence of a very potent GLP-1 gip flips from a hypoglycemic signal to a powerful driver of energy expenditure. Here's what that means. It tells your liver to burn fat like a furnace. Look at New England Journal of Medicine wasn't just good when they studied this. It was obscene. 24.2% mean weight loss at 48 weeks, primarily 74% fat. You want to look up the data on the rest of those that you keep fighting for, Sema and Tursza, flip the numbers around. That's how much muscle you're losing, 74%. Listen, the study on Red True Tide, they had to stop the trial early. Do you know why? Because it was ethically unreasonable to keep the placebo group on sugar as the right the fake. This isn't a drug. This isn't my favorite, right? It's a metabolic just boom wrecking ball. Listen, insulin resistance, right? core pathology. Sorry, I have an itchy nose. Probably means I'm blind, right? You guys and your stupid little things that you think about your idiosyncrasies. You guys ever drink something weird? You just put it together. I don't know if you can see that, but it's coffee mixed with this stuff. Maybe that's why I'm so lit with this pre this amino/ preworkout thing that I sprinkle a little. I take maybe a quarter of it. You guys take these multiple scoops. I would My brain would explode. I take about a quarter of a scoop. I put it in with my coffee and I mixed it in. It's strawberry flavored coffee. I'm going to be very transparent. It's not very good at all. It's terrible. But I don't care. It's like a sweet strawberry coffee. It's like the caff It's a Coke made a carbonated coffee. It's probably about 4 years ago. And I remember I picked some up. I got it at Target and I'm like, I'm not sure if I like this or not yet. And I still don't know. My the jury's out on that one. So if you guys have ever tried it. Somebody sent don't send me a message on YouTube. Here's the number of comments I read read on YouTube. None. Zero. So get in the comments and do all your stuff. That's fine. If you're thanking me, thank you very much. If you're doing anything other than that, [ __ ] you very much. How about that? But if you've ever had it, send me a message on Instagram and tell me what you think about it because I actually can't even find it. It's probably because they stopped making that carbonated Coca-C or carbonated coffee. I actually had the idea. I said to Brandy one day, I said, "Hey, imagine if they made carbonated coffee." She goes, "That would be terrible." It was probably 6 months later. The universe heard and went, "Don't worry, I got you, bro." Yeah. As I'm thinking about it, it's a terrible idea. So anyway, insulin resistance, let me come back to this. It's not I think that's where I was, right? Insulin resistance, it's not a condition. Insulin resistance is a it's like a cellular it's like a mutiny, right? Pirates of the Caribbean and they're all going against you. The insulin receptor on your muscle and fat cells, it's like a docking port. In resistance, that port is clogged. It's clogged with these fat derivatives like dasogglycerol and ceramides. This biochemical sewage backup. So the key insulin can't turn the lock. It can't do its job. M C is this very precise, very elite cleanup crew. It doesn't just wipe the crap off this lock so the key can fit. It changes the environment so all that crap can't even form. The gunk, the residue, it can't form. It can't do anything. It works through AMP activated protein kynise, right? AMPK, the pathway. When AMPK is flipped on, when it's activated, it does a bunch of things, but three very brutal things. It increases glucose uptake by recruiting something called glute 4 transporters, and it brings them to the to the cell membrane. It literally builds more docking ports. That's number one. Number two is it enhances fatty oxid fatty acid oxidation burning the lipids that are causing these are the very lipids by the way that are causing all the problems. And then the third thing it does is it promotes mitochondrial biogenesis. It builds more power plants. But here's why. See I'm the why guy. I need to know here's why it builds more power plants in order to handle the increased energy demand. 2018 study by year showed that in diet induced obese mice m C this is the best restored insulin sensitivity like this to lean mouse levels without any change in body weight. So you might go what's the point then no you're not getting it big fat obese mouse hit them with m c insulin sensitivity pow goes through the roof to lean mouse levels without changing which means they can solve the problem now way faster. It fixed the software glitch that's causing the hardware failure. Do you understand like how revolutionary this is? And here's the best part. The revolution has been inside you the whole time. All this is doing is saying it's tapping the signal. This is why peptides are so badass. This is why they're so effective because it's not a drug. It doesn't come in and act like a jackhammer and go, "We're going to break this up no matter what, even if it hurts." Because you can't fight a drug. A peptide can't make you do something you're not designed to do. Period. Period. So if you So that's MZ C if you look at reatrite just so you understand between that this whole insulin conundrum that we've got going on. Reatrui doesn't bother with that clogged lock, right? It just builds a whole new port. It's GLP1 and GIP agonism creates this massive glucose dependent insulin surge that comes in and overwhelms the resistance. But here's the real genius. The glucagon component. Listen to this. Glucagon receptor activation in the liver stimulates cyclic AMP, right? CAP production which activates protein kynise a pKa now pKa this is best then phosphorolates a whole suite of enzymes that ramp up hpatic glycolysis and fatty acid oxidation it's like you're in your F-22 Raptor and they just hit the metab it's like when Tom Cruz goes just a little more right at the beginning of Maverick it's like hitting the metabolic afterwards creates this massive energy deficit forcing the body to consu to consume its own ectopic fat stores the fat in your liver and pancreas that's causing the damn insulin resistance in the first place. This is why this stuff is so radical. You can't find a drug that does this. I went over metformin. It's not even close. Retformin. Metformin is a mixed it right. Reat tide metformin. Retformin. Metformin is a disaster. Retta doesn't ask nicely man. It thermogenically incinerates the problem right at the source. How wild is this? Look at type 2 diabetes directly. Okay. So for diabetes, MOSI, I'll compare Matzi and cuz this a lot of people were asking you this. Okay, Mat Cy or Redatide, which one do I do? Because they both work very well. They don't. They do. But let me explain why they're different and why you need to have one versus the other. For di for diabetes, MOS C is the it's the precision strike, right? It targets skeletal muscle, which is the body's just so you know, it's the body's primary glucose disposal unit. Maybe you guys didn't know that. There's a lot of muscle. So by enhancing insulin signaling and mitochondrial function there, it corrects the fundamental defect which the inability to store glucose as glycogen. It can't do it. It's a restorative therapy. Think of it as it's rehab for your metabolism, right? Redatride is the wartthog, right? The strategic bombing campaign. It just it attacks the disease all kinds of fronts. It supercharges insulin secretion, suppresses glucagon in the postrandial state, right? It slows gastric emptying, it centrally reduces appetite, but its killer app is the reversal of lipotoxicity. So by by rapidly clearing out the fat from the pancreas, it rescues the beta cell function. Okay, so look, the triumph the phase 2 trials the triumph phase 2 trials 86, this is such a huge number, the triumph trials, 86% of patients hit HBA1C levels below 5.7. So, you know that what that is? That's the threshold for non-diabetes. It doesn't control diabetes, you guys. It makes it go bye-bye. It achieves remission. It erases the diagnosis. And yet, they want you on metformin. Please listen to me. Look at the brain. Type three diabetes, right? Cognitive decline. All listen. Calling Alzheimer's and I will put and dementia. They're the same. They're the same. I I realize there's some very finite little differences, but they're the same. They're the same. Calling Alzheimer's type 3 diabetes is the most important neurological insight of the last 50 years. The brain's neurons become insulin resistant. They starve. So amaloid plaques and towangles that's the debris. That's the rubble. The earthquake is metabolic failure. It's my three metabolic failures. I talk about these all the time. My three biological systematic failures that cause every single disease known to men. M C is a direct neuroprotective agent. It crosses the bloodb brain barrier and it localizes hippocampus hypothalamus. That's where it hangs out. And this is where it exerts some gnarly magic. Oh, this is where it gets good. Reduces inflammation by inhibiting NFCAP pathway, which is the master regulator of the inflammatory cytoine storm that destroys synapses. Hold on, I'm going to drink some more of this swill that I'm drinking. Really, it's just such a deceptive. It smells like coffee and tastes like strawberries. So 2019 nature communications they showed that intra cerebro ventric v ventricular injection of m c in aged mice old mice you ready for this part 100% reverse cognitive def deficits they use something called the morris water mace but reversed I'll say it again intra cerebro ventricular injection of mod c listen to me this is how badass this is in aged mice reversed cognitive deficits but this listen to me do you get what I'm saying this should you guys should just be like running out and I I don't care if you listen. You want to buy at Elite Biogenics, thank you so much for supporting my company. I promise. No matter what you think and no matter how manybody somebody complains about it, that's on them. But I'm not going to let you down, man. Cuz if I trust it with my family, you can trust it with yourself. And I am OCD. If you haven't figured that out by now, you're never going to. But I am as OCD as it gets. So, thank you. If you want to buy from them, great. If you don't, that's okay. I still show up, right? You want to join the black card and just get answers up, down, and sideways. Listen, if you've been waiting 9 months to get an answer from a doctor, that's nine months of your life you're not going to get back. That's what I'll say. But the black card, you get in, you get my live one or not my one-on-one, my live Q&A call every Monday evening. It's not the same call that's on Sundays. I had somebody get all mad and go, "It's the same call every week, dumbass. You're getting on my free call. That's not what I do. That's free. You get access to all my protocols." I just put a kick-ass migraine protocol in there for my for my members. And I love my members, right? Like, I'll bleed for you guys if you're listening to this right now. I love my members so much. Like, they're just family to me. They come to me with everything. Everything from health to personal issues to God to you name it. They just This is a family, man. That's the community I want. And you want to join the black card? Great. You get access to all that stuff, man. No, there's no one-on-one call. There's no Zoom call with me. It is a Q&A video call. It's a Zoom call. Yes. That's got everybody else on it, too. You just ask me questions. I stay on the call till everybody has an answer. And if not, then I just go into the black card and I answer the question later that week. 24 to 48 hours, I answer questions. It's faster than any doctor out there. So, I really don't care if somebody's kicking too long. Dude, you've been waiting 6 years. If it takes me 2 days, you're good. It's 9,997 till the end of the year and then at least 25,000 for the year to buy in at least. And 2,000 a month to maintain. I have no problem asking for that. I have already people asking me going, I can't make it right now. I had too many things going on. Not financially. They're just I'm too busy. It makes no sense. I'll just pay the 25. Now, of course, I money talks and [ __ ] walks, right? But I'm going to tell you right now, they'll join because it's worth it. What's your health worth? You guys will go out and spend 100 grand on a car, but you'll be fat and broken and sick on all kinds of medication. I don't know what to say to that. I value my life a lot. There's no amount of money I wouldn't spend for the health of myself or the people that I love. Nothing. There's no amount that I wouldn't spend. I'd spend it all. I'd live in a year in the middle of a field if I had to just so my wife and my kids were okay. I guess I look at things differently because of what I've been through. Maybe. I don't know. Missing a lung changes you. Waking up in the hospital missing parts. Everybody betting against you. skinny week and losing everything that you've built in 20 years, losing it in a matter of weeks changes your view. Just so you know, I don't know if you guys can tell even in my podcast like I'm I deliver hard. So to come in and try and insult me is just weird. It's juvenile is what it is. People you insult doctors, maybe they shouldn't be idiots. It's that simple. Maybe they should actually care. Above all, do no harm. But you want to join the black card? It's 9,997 bucks. It's wire transfer only. I don't make I don't take payments. I don't take zel. I don't take credit cards. Wire only. Period. I use Frost here in Texas, local. Right. Here's the email. Apply atunlockthecard.com. You will get a paper that has the wire information and a message from either Jen or Amber and says, "Here, send us the money and we will let you in the next 24 to 48 hours." The end. That's it. It's not hard. But whether you do or you don't doesn't change whether or not I give you the information, which is a testament to my true character, just so you know. Cuz I don't come out here and market the piss out of my stuff. So listen to me because Matzi, let me come back to the MOSI because otherwise I'll do this all day. Matsi is so radical, right? Because they're reversing all the things they say are irreversible and they're permanent damage. You correlate this with enhanced synaptic plasticity markers like PSD95 and BDNF brain derived neurotrophic factor. It's not just protecting the brain. M C you guys, it's making it younger. I'm 52, man. I'll take a younger brain all day long. Mont C is direct neuroprotective. The true tide's brain benefits are systemic and direct. So the systemic benefit by just demolishing peripheral inflammation and insulin resistance which it does very well. It reduces the flow just that massive tsunami of inflammatory cytoines. Guess which ones TNF alpha IL6 that breach the bloodb brain barrier and activate the brain's resident immune cells micro ga. Okay? So it turns them into these psycho killers. They're just these attackers that mob your brain and start destroying things. Now here's the direct benefit of redatruide not the biomeic glea before you're like I don't understand. I thought you said they're bad. GLP-1 receptors are densely packed in specific brain regions but just keep in mind they're densely packed. Their activation like in the journal of neurosciences for example 2022 protects against amaloid beta induced synaptic loss. It reduces towel tangles. The hyperphosphorilation, right? The towel hyperphosphorilation makes the railroad ties become all disastrous. It's neurogenesis. Like it just you guys, even as I'm saying this, I'm like, you guys don't get it. And yet they want to give you things that that aren't going to have any benefit. They just cognitive decline. And they like I every time this breaks my heart, man. It keeps making me think of Bruce Willis for crying out loud, man. You doctors in front of Bruce, you guys are scumbags that are selfish that are you're selling him, man, for your ego. So you're not wrong me a true tie delivers this snapkick double punch to the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's and dementia one look at the longevity right just from lifespan look at health span adding years to this frail diseased life is a freaking punishment I don't know if you've got that you want health span not lifespan hooking you up to machines and a bunch of drugs so you crawl around humanity going I'm still alive but you're not functional and you're a daughtering idiot and you can't do anything and you're frail and you're broken that's not ex that's not quality of life you guys that is that's a business model you want health span MOT C is a caloric restriction mimemetic okay so watch it activates AMPK which inhibits mTor which is the mtorc1 which is the specifically which is the primary driver of cellular aging and senicides alive and useless right the cells that just turn into these biochemical terrorists that trash your system so by doing this it enhances autophagy which is the cellular housekeeping that clears out all the junk and either converts and repairs or destroys and eats. You look at invertebrate models, aged mice, both of them. They did tests on both of these. MC improves physical performance, reduces frailty, and extends health span. Sign me up. It's a tuneup for the cellular engine. All 30 trillion in a human being. Just to be clear, look at Reddit. True tides longevity claim built on the uni undeniable fact that obesity accelerates biological aging. All you guys with your big is beautiful, please stop. It's not an attack. Stop taking it personal. It's because I actually love you. If my son or my daughter or my wife ever got morbidly obese, I would hammer them into the ground with everything I could to make sure they lost that weight. Why? Because I faking love them. And I would damn well expect them to do the same for me. You guys have gotten so caught up in arguing to stay where you are just because you don't want to feel like it's a personal attack. You forget that where you are is what's costing you your very life, costing you your finances, your marriage, your health. It's costing you everything. Listen, reatride shortens telomeir or obesity, shortens telomeirs, increases sen burden, the senisonence associated secretary phenotype sasps, right? Drives chronic inflammation. It's called inflammaging. So by inducing this, I was going to say profound, but massive weight loss. Reatrutide acts as this powerful cenolytic and telmir protective agent. Right? Look at what it's doing. It's getting in the way of the things that are causing the problems that you want to avoid. It removes the single greatest environmental accelerant of the aging process in the modern world. Being fat. If you haven't figured out what I was trying to say, I used to try and be nice about this stuff, but now I'm just I'm kind about it. Sometimes I'm just not your kind. Listen, all chronic diseases, cancer, heart disease, neurodeeneration, autoimmunity. It's this disgusting manifestation of the three core failures every single time. I am 100% bright. systemic inflammation, cytoine storm that is burning down the village, insulin resistance, the supply lines are cut and the cells are trashed and starving, ATP shortage, the energy crisis that's causing all these problems. The power grid is failing, leading to cellular apoptosis and dysfunction every single time. You will never find a disease ever in human biology that does not subscribe to this narrative. You will not. Trust me. But look it up if you don't want to look it up. I'm not I'm not wrong. M C is the undispatch. So MOT C is hands down the undisputed champion of resolving failures. Two, insulin resistance and three ATP shortage. Look at the mechanism action, right? It directly targets mitochondrial efficiency and insulin signaling. Red a true tide is the Titan, right? It's a heavyweight champ that resolves one and two, right? Then it extinguishes the inflammatory issue, the fire, and two, it rebuilds the supply lines. It brings insulin back online. So you see how this works now? Is this starting to come together? I want you to understand the fundamentals so you actually understand what's going on. So the clinical decision tree is actually really simple. Deploy retatide when the patient is a metabolic dumpster fire. Severe obesity HBA1C that's greater than 8.5. Fatty liver disease. This is the all of this stuff just massive autoimmune issues even massive cognitive decline beyond that is a is a result of obesity and insulin issues. Right? This is the first wave assault. It creates this blank slate for you to solve the problem afterwards. Deploy M C for preemptive strikes for maintenance for targeted organ rescue. So pre-diabetes age related cognitive decline athletic recovery. And here's the best part if you haven't put this together yet as a followup to Redat True Tide to lock in the gains and optimize the mitochondria health at a foundational level. So you keep what you just solved. So for look at for non-alcoholic fatty liver disease NFldd and cerosis reatride is hands down the definitive treatment. The weight loss directly reverses hippatic steattosis and the metabolic improvements reduce the drivers of the fibrosis. Now let me explain this. Let me give you a protocol that will make all the medical doctors out there piss their pants and get angry at me. Call it the god protocol. I don't care what you want to call it. So let's look at this. Reat tide titrate up to a tolerated dose maximum. Start real low. This is the controlled demolition of the pathological metabolic state. Mod C start this 2 3 weeks after retatride mod C this begins rebuilding the mitochondrial infrastructure the engines and the nuclear reactors during the demolition we're not segmenting this you have to run these synergistically then the third part of this you're going to kick this in probably a month in BPC57 gut healing listen disrupted leaky gut is the foundation of 80% of the diseases out there starts the right lipopolyaccharides the bloodstream, come out of the sewer system into this nice closed little vascular system, and your immune system goes batshit crazy, and it just cascades from there. So, BPC57, the gut healing, angioenesis promoting peptide that repairs the frigin leaky gut, primary source of systemic inflammation that absolutely disrupts everything in your system. Is that an easy way to explain it cuz I could sit here and do this all day. KPV, anti-inflammatory fragment of alpha MSH that very specifically targets the NLRP3 inflammosome. It's like a cooling systemic. It's like a It's like a cooling system for your inflammation. It shuts down the systemic immune activation that is trashing everything and causing failure. Number one, is this starting to come together? TB500 actin polymerization. Like that's what it promotes. Enables the cytokeleletal repair for vascular endothelium, muscle, connective tissue, kidneys, lungs. I went over this yesterday. SS31. This is the one where people like, "Wait, I thought you said, listen, you already got Mod C, right? came in the beginning 2 weeks in SS31. This peptide crosses the outer mitochondrial membrane, binds to cardiolipin on the inner membrane, stabilizes the electron transport chain, specifically complexes 1 and four to reduce ROS's, reactive oxygen species, which are the antioxidants, just to reduce this leakage and maximize ATP production. And so you get a nice fat chunky adenazine triphosphate yield so you have the currency for your damn life to solve the problems and perform the repairs required so your body can run at 100%. It's fitting a high performance exhaust system on your cellular engines and then tuning the ECU. That's how this works. This is a coordinated attack. It's just this symphony of biological action. You guys read a true tide creates the metabolic space. M C and SS31 optimize the energy production. BPC57 and KPV repair the gut immune access which is critical and TB500 is going to repair the structural damage. It's so comprehensive that it would be idiotic not to do it. It's this multi-system overhaul that most people are going to hear and go, "What did you say again? Is this going to make me more jacked?" You guys listen to me. Looking like Captain America is the byproduct of a system that works. It's you guys got it backwards. You're trying to look like Captain America thinking that's going to make the system work. Other way around. You guys have been lied to, man. You guys have you've been told that getting sick and slow and stupid is just part of getting older. That is a it's a profit-driven lie. And your body is I say it every time and I'm trying to give you the tools. It's not a mystery. It's not. It's a system of levers and pulleys and hormones and peptides and enzymes and receptors. And if you understand how it works, it's very easy to solve. What they do is they compartmentalize it and they keep you out of the loop. So you can't learn the entire system except you wait till I write a book that shows you how to do this. Believe me, it's in the works. I'm going to do the whole freaking thing. Oh, it's going to be a big boat, but it's going to unlock the universe that's called your body. These molecules are the proof. Everything I'm talking about is as real as a gravity as the nose on your face. It's proof that you don't have to accept the slow rot, the decline, that you can intervene, that you can hack the code because it's been done for thousands of years. You can take control. Listen, this isn't about living to be 120 years old. It's about being stronger and sharper and more vital at faking 80 than you were at 40. You guys, the area the era of I see it in the commercials, social media, the era of begging your body to function properly. Please function. It's over. And there like I need your help. I'm not going to lie. I need I can't do this on myself by myself. I need your help. I that you have to step in and go, I'm unwilling to take this managed decline anymore. And when you get sick, you have to go why did I get sick? Not how do I solve the problem? And then get in the way of when yes, you need to mitigate the issue, but you need to put out the fire. I'm saying, why'd you get sick in the first place? You should be so unwelcome to pathology that it just rarely happens. Like, we're right now in in the era of commanding your biology to obey. The future of health is not it's it's not in a pill or a surgery or a longstanding medical treatment for years and decades just so they can ring every ounce of profit out of you. It's a protocol. It's a protocol that gets your system back online. You weren't born sick. You weren't born with some deficiency for the most part without somebody arguing the fringe. The protocols right now you guys like the protocols right now. The life you have you could listen mod a true tide married together flip them around by the way. Even those two right out of the gate if you just think about it. If you just think about how the system is designed to work, right? Just think about it. If you get it, watch. If you're struggling with your physiology, reatride and mi married together, there's a good chance that'll solve 90% of the problems, right? Reatrutide solves one and two, systemic inflammation, insulin resistance. M C solves two and three, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Marry them together and you're a frigin juggernaut. Anyway, I hope you guys got something out of this. You know when to use what. Hope you guys got some, man. I got to go. Never miss.
