# Can You Mix Peptides Together - Unbreakable Podcast 273

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

It's a good day today, huh? You know, it's like anything. It's always a good day. And so today, I thought I would do something a little different. I got a lot of questions from you guys, and I love them. Keep them coming. I mean, I come out here to help you. So, if you're going to get in my comments and start trying to act like you have a an opinion that matters to me about anything I'm talking about, don't save it. I just delete you. I don't have any time for stupidity. And I've decided uh just like my attorney says, he goes, "I try and limit my exposure to stupid people." I agree. imbeciles and stupid people not welcome in my life. No people that want to learn, dude, I will give all I've got, everything I've ever learned and anything I ever will learn. And just to be transparent, I've actually got a lot of you guys asked me to do biochemistry lectures and physiology lectures and human biology lectures and even a couple of neurology lectures. I'm more than happy to do that. You guys just have to let me know if you're genuinely interested and I'll come out here and I'll do all kinds of stuff for you. I'll help you with everything I got. I want you guys to know, the more you know about this machine that you amulate around this gravity controlled environment, the more power you have to make good decisions about how to make it last the longest instead of listening to the insta bros and the gurus who get incredibly mad when I say they're insta bros and gurus cuz they're self-appointed experts. And before somebody goes, "What about you?" I'm a [ __ ] doctor. I've been a doc for a long, long time and I've got a string of degrees after my name and it doesn't even matter if you listen. I don't come out here and just make up words. I come out here because I actually do understand physiology very very well because I geek out on this stuff. I My wife says she married a tough guy nerd. She did. That's me. And and she said it's probably the most sexy thing she's ever seen is an intelligent man who can back it with some muscle. So it listen, I'm coming out here to give you all I got. The question I got the other day, and I've actually had quite a few of you guys, so I'm going to answer it on this podcast. Normally, I would just put it into my stories, but I think it involves a little bit of a requires a little bit of a deeper dive. And that is mixing peptides. Not in a hold on before I get started in this before some weird three-letter agency can double rainbows from me. It's just ridiculous how we can't like freedom. Are you kidding? Just to be very transparent, understand that you guys are working until about June or July for free because all of your money is going to IR and the S. Again, you guys aren't getting it. You're being taxed. You're a slave. Taxation is theft. You're being you're a slave and and it's the most ridiculous thing in the world. You're not free to help people the way you want. And if a product doesn't work, you can talk about it all day long, but the second it works, they condemn it and lock it away and tell you that it causes cancer cuz then it scares you and you don't use it. So, just to put a blanket statement out there before I go any further, this isn't meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, triage, advise. This is only for entertainment and for education and purely hypothetical. If you know, you know. Garbage. Now, that being said, peptides do not cause cancer. I had some nipple tar get in my comments yet again. Send me a message. I'd like to see that research. I know on good on on on that MK677 causes cancer. I've already gone over that how it doesn't. Not at all. In fact, it what they did was they they modified an experiment to make it look that way and then gave it. It's the most ridiculous. It's just like saying testosterone causes anything detrimental in a human being, which I completely abolished yesterday. I'm going to burn holes in all of the lies because I want you guys to have the information. It's not for me. This is for you guys cuz I walk around going, "Lie, that's ridiculous. That doesn't make any sense. These guys are posting garbage. these like [ __ ] Gary Brea, dude. You all you are is a salesman. I got nothing to say except you're ridiculous. It pisses me off. I don't care if you have 20 PhDs. If your information is bunk, it's still bunk. All that does is means that you spent a lot of money, wrote a lot of checks for an education and a piece of paper. Not even an education. Let me back up. You bought a piece of paper. Stop thinking degrees. Listen, degrees don't make you intelligent. They just tell you that you paid for something. That's it. Stop it. Before you get offended, degrees are important. No, they're not. Application of acquired knowledge is important. Helping other people is important. Sharing your solutions with other people. Whether it is for in exchange for money or it is just to do is really irrelevant, but it is important. It is my obligation every day to come out here and give you everything I've got so you have something to stand on and go, "Well, that makes sense." And until you understand it, I have to keep coming. So, I'm just going to keep showing up. So, listen. How many you guys have? So, this is about mixing peptides cuz I saw this one idiot. This is the most idiotic Insta bro. He's like, "Hey, what's up my friends?" Like, this guy bothers me so much because he's so dumb. If you know who he is, you know who he is. If you don't, I don't care. I'm not going to give him any credit because listening to this guy is it's embarrassing with his low slung pants. Dude, what are you gay? Listen, mixing peptides in the same cylinder. Not listen, if you do it, you do you, man. Just not always a a good idea. And I'll explain when and when it like when you should, when you shouldn't. But it is not a universal principle. I I'll explain just using pure physiology and chemistry why it's a bad idea. Like how many of you guys have been down this rabbit hole? Like you're scrolling through some forum or Instagram and you're looking through the comment section and you're trying to learn about peptides or or SARMs or anything like that and you got a question like, "Hey, can I mix BPC 157, for example, and TB500 in the same syringe?" I get these, "Hey, can I use a blend of those two?" No, without without fail, there's always some instab bro. That guy, you know, this guy, the insta bro, his profile is him flexing in a bathroom mirror at some gym. And his comment is, I do it all the time. Trust me, bro. Like, that's his tagline is trust me, bro. Trust me, bro. Three most dangerous words in modern English. I think I need to explain why that is just it's not just wrong, but that advice as a blanket statement. And if you're doing it, great. Good for you. You're just you're ignorant. And instead of getting all butt hurt, maybe shut your mouth, put your seat warmer in a chair, and listen to what I'm trying to explain to you. So you go, "Wow, I never understood that." The advice to just start throwing things in a cylinder and backload them into an insulin syringe, which is what people talk about, is costing you time and money and your health and it's sabotaging your results. And it it proves, if anybody says that, that you don't understand the first thing about human biology whatsoever. Never mind chemistry and precipitation of chemicals and pH level. You don't understand any of this stuff. So, I'm going to make sure that you understand that mixing peptides in the same cylinder. Remember, I'm saying not taking them at the same time, even then. I'm going explain how to do that, too. Mixing them in the same tube about 95% of the time is a hallmark of an incredibly lazy protocol and largely ineffective. You should be the 5%. It's not about being some elitist, by the way. It's about respect for your own biology. Like, grow up if that's what you're going to do. So, let me explain something. A syringe, just so we're clear, a syringe is not a damn blender. It's not a ninja. You're not making a peptide smoothie. When you draw multiple compounds into one barrel and first of all, you dull the crap out of the syringe. And if somebody goes, "Oh, just toughen up." You're so tough, bro. Get out of here, man. So, if you're going to do it, you pull the plunger out, backload, it's not going to drip out. It's a 29 gauge pin. But if you draw multiple compounds into one barrel, you are creating a brand new chemical environment. How do you think chemistry is is done? How do you think that happens when you mix two? It's not oil and water and they're separate. You guys aren't getting this. You're mixing two things together. If I put coffee and cream and sugar into this versus just black coffee, they're not even close to the same. It is an entirely new chemical. I I don't know how else to explain this, so I'll try my best because it's very frustrating. You're in you're initiating reactions. You're playing like molecular Jenga with your results. And you're betting your health on some Insta bro comment or some Insta Guru who says, "Trust me, I'm an expert. Look at my 4 million bot followers." Like, oh my I've been on this platform, not just here. And thank you guys for helping me grow my channel, by the way. Keep sharing it. I'm just trying to give information, but I I mean, I've built my following over 11 years. But let let me look at the BPC57 and the TB500. And this is kind of off the cuff, so if I'm moving through it slowly, just bear with me. BPC157 is a 15 amino acid peptide, okay? Remarkably stable, to be honest. And that doesn't mean shake it to mix it, you rookie. Don't do that. But it's a it's got this very specific this pH sweet spot where it is the most soluble and the happiest. Now take TB500 which is the synthetic version of the fragment that operates out of thyus beta 4 which is a significantly larger fragment 43 amino acids versus 15 just so you know TB500 43 amino acids way more fragile I mean they're not even in the same realm fragile has a different isoelectric point which is that the pH where it becomes neutral and wants to fall out of the solution and I'll explain what this means because I don't want to get too hard into chemistry but I want you to understand what I'm talking about. So when you mix them, you create a compromised pH. You're forcing these two very, very distinct compounds to live in a chemical neighborhood that neither one of them prefer. It's like, I want to live over here. I want to live over here. And you go, well, we're going to happily meet in the middle, but neither one of them are happily meeting in the middle. Neither one wants to be there. So the result is quite often something called a precipitation, which is the cloudiness that you sometimes see. Cloudiness isn't a mixing issue. So when somebody says, "Oh, it got cloudy." You mixed it with something stupid. You either took tap water and mixed it, which what are you doing, man? Tap water is nasty, or acetic acid instead of something with benzyl alcohol. There's so many things that you've done wrong if if it's precipitating. It's not a little mixing issue. It's a very visual, incontrovertible proof of peptide denaturation. You're watching your It's not even a financial investment. Peptides, if somebody goes, "Why are peptides so expensive?" I want to smack you in the mouth, man. Somebody sent that. Why are peptides so expensive? Why are drugs so cheap? Then which one works better? You guys ask questions because you're cheap. You're cheap with your time, your money, and your energy. That's costing you your health, man. When it precipitates like that and gets all cloudy, you're watching all that healing potential or whatever the signal is going to be turn into this useless aggregated clump. But let's say it's clear. Let's say you don't see that the problems have just begun because now you enter the realm of something called receptor agonism and timing issues. So take something like CJC 1295 with with without DACA. It doesn't matter in a pomearellin. I would go with nodak because it'll work better with this example. So you take a pomearellin which is a growth hormone secret right GHP mimics ghrein has this incredibly short halflife like minutes and it's designed to create this very sharp pulse signal to the pituitary gland. So CJC1295 is a growth hormone releasing analog. It is also relatively short in its halfife to be honest. It's about 30 minutes to an hour but it binds to a completely different receptor. So follow me on this and I'm trying not to I don't want to lose anybody but listen to me. The bro science mantra is mix them. It's easier. Put them in the same syringe and then hit both receptors at once for a much bigger GH pulse. That doesn't even make sense from physiology. Here's the physiological reality. Your body's natural GH release is this very well orchestrated symphony. It's not this. It's not like you're taking a like a machine gun and blasting at your body. It's this very precisely timed sequence and it matters. You can sit there and disagree, but it still matters. GHRP and GHRH work in a very delicate balanced concert with each other. So, the optimal effect comes with a very specific sequence and timing of these signals. And your body does it the best. So, if you remember, if people go, well, peptides are probably really bad for you, then no, they're very good for you. In fact, it's the best thing you can ever do for your system. But not when you let them slam dance your physiology into that freaking zip code. So by injecting them mixed together, you're creating this very blunt, simultaneous, and utterly unphysiological shock to your pituitary. You're not mimicking nature. There's the problem, right? You want to take this and you want to mimic nature and crank up the ROI. What happens when you do this is you're overwhelming it. So now you risk receptor desensitization. So now you're the guy that's sitting at, let's say you're listen, I like David Foster, right? So I said, I like the way he plays piano. He does orchestras and concerts and things like that. Yes, I listen to stuff like that. But you're the guy that's like blasting air horns in the audience. you're not making the music better. You're pissing everybody off. So go into a much more dangerous area where you actually cause problems where you have opposing mechanisms of action. This is where the trust me bro science which isn't science goes from lazy to very dangerous. And you I will put this blanket statement out there. If you go a worked for me, bro, I do this all the time. I am coming out here to give you advice. So you last to be a 100red years old and at 95 you're still doing roundoffs in your back [ __ ] yard. And if you go, nobody's going to do that, then I'm not for you because I want to be able to just move and function like a teenager as long as I possibly can. So look at something like I'll use semiglutide, not reducide. And yes, they are different, radically different. So semiglutide, GLP-1 agonist that slows gastric emptying. That's all it is. It is literally an appetite suppressant with a very fancy marketing campaign. Mix that with tessapensine, which is a very, very potent stimulant that increases metabolic rate and a ton of alertness. It's very effective. Tesensine's wicked, but one is putting the brakes on your digestive system. This is why understanding physiology and listening to somebody like this guy who says if you're going to mix things together, do it like this makes sense. So, one puts the brakes on your digestive system and the other is hammering the skinny pedal on your entire sympathetic nervous system. So, when you mix them, you're sending this catastrophic conflicting set of signals to your autonomic nervous system. The one that's running in the background right now as you're listening to this, getting all pissed off going, "Some guy told me to do this and I'm realizing now it doesn't work." Yeah, you're asking the body to simultaneously ready, we all know this, rest and digest and fight, flight or freeze at the same time. So the result isn't synergy. It's this systemic confusion. So what happens when you do that is not just desensitization of receptors, but it's side effects. And I realize I've said before there's no such thing as side effects. They're only effects. Well, you are causing effects you don't want. It's a great way to feel absolutely terrible, too. By the way, I'll give you more examples. stenabolic which is SR909 and carterine mixing them together and I realize people like why don't I put those together this is taking at the same time by the way not take understand why I'm explaining this this is a hit in the same barrel so if you're drinking them at the same time if you're taking them at the same time if you're injecting them at the same time this matters and if the logic is well if they're going to the same place why wouldn't why what what difference does it make okay go take your ice cream and your burger and your broccoli and your cauliflower and put them in in a blender, turn them on and drink it. That's how stupid that logic is. I'm just trying to help you. So, SR9 is this agonist and it boosts mitochondrial function and endurance. Well, carterine is a PP delta agonist and it also improves endurance and lipid metabolism, right? We know this stuff. This is stuff I talk about all the time. The bro logic is stack them for insane cardio. I saw this the other day. It really pissed me off because the biochemical reality is you are activating two extremely powerful separate separate nuclear receptor pathways that control your metabolism. And the long-term consequence of this kind of receptor overload is honestly unknown. Like you're you're using yourself as a human guinea pig. I'm okay if you understand what it does and you're okay to I mean if you want to sign the waiver to your own life and it's I mean it's just figurative, go ahead. I'm just not taking a chance with my health like that. And I mean, if you want to sign that waiver and turn yourself into a guinea pig due to a guy that prioritizes a pump over long-term health, okay, knock yourself out. Like I said, today's a little different. I just want you guys to understand this stuff. So, I I guess the question is, is it ever okay to mix things in the same barrel, in the same cylinder? Yeah, there it actually is, very much so. But the rule is very simple. You can only mix peptides that are chemically compatible and physiologically synergistic. And there's a lot of bro science out there where people think like this idiot that calls it retatride and he says you have to titrate down semiglutide while titrating up retatride. Learn how to say it. Same with trespathide. Titrate down while titrating up. That is a great way to put a cement block in your stomach. [ __ ] up your entire GI tract. Give yourself potential paralysis issues and feel like a bag of hammered dog [ __ ] for about a week. Knock yourself out. Keep listening to those guys. Or you can listen to me and go, "Man, this guy actually cares." Yeah, I do. That's why I'm out here even doing this. Oh, I'm sure somebody's going to give me static about this. How about this? GFY. I'm not doing this for profit. I'm doing this to help you. Listen to me. Don't listen to me. I don't care. This is because I know. So, I'm just sharing the knowledge. Here's the Let me give you the short safe list. The general rule of thumb is that peptides from the same class with similar stability profiles from a chemistry standpoint can be mixed. So, how about this? So, how about I give you a green list and a red list. So, here's a green list that would make sense to me from a a biochemistry and from a physiology standpoint. GHR analoges together. So, let's look at this and I'll go through the I'll go through them. I'll go through GHRPS. I'll go through some healing peptides. So, at least you have something you can look at and then you decide what to do. You can make CJC1295 no DACK, right? So, it's short short, right? Cuz with DACK it extends halfife 7 10 days and uh to Samaran to Samarellin's awesome anyway, but here's why. They're both analoges of the same native hormone GHR. So they have this the similar mechanism and similar stability profiles in this it's like a slightly acidic bacteria static water solution. So you're not getting alternating phes. So they're telling the same story to the same receptor just with slightly different accents, right? It's like one is coming from Texas and one is coming from Minnesota, but they both say the same thing. GHP analoges together. You can mix a pamarellin and GHP2 or GHP 6. I'm not a fan of GHRP2 just cuz it comes with some wild side effects or wild effects that I don't like like prolactin and cortisol and stuff like that. But you can mix these all together. Again, here's why. Listen, you this is why I'm I'm telling you understanding physiology really matters and understanding they really endocrinology really matters. Same receptor target, right? GHRS is R1A and similar structures. That's the receptor by the way and similar structures, similar stability. So you're increasing the volume, right? Turning up the volume knob on the same message, but you're not changing the language. And that's where I think the best way to explain it is you're pummeling this receptor, but you're pummeling. It's like you've got you're in the tower of babel and everybody's screaming and yelling, but nobody understands what's going on. That's what ends up happening when you start putting all these things in the same in the same cylinder. With the healing peptides, BPC57, KPV, it's just a smaller anti-inflammatory peptide, KPV. You can sometimes mix them together sometimes if they're reconstituted correctly because they're both relatively stable. They're short-chain peptides, but it's still I mean just be smart with pH matching. This stuff actually matters. And if you go, "Okay, how do I do that?" Easy. Use the same [ __ ] water all the time. Don't pull one from one and one from the other and then slap them into the same vial. This and don't put them in a vial and then put them in your fridge and draw from that vial. That's yet another problem, right? If you're going to mix something, do it there on the spot. And if you go, it takes a long time. Do you want health or do you want convenience? So, let me Is this making sense? And if it's not, I don't know what to tell you. It's I'm hungry. Here's a a good red list to keep in mind. And this is where the Insta bro, Insta Guru, self-appointed expert, I've been doing this for a long time. This is where they're going to get you in trouble. That's why I look at these blends that these companies are selling. And no, I don't care what kind of chemistry degree you have. It doesn't matter. You guys are mixing the wrong things together. You're mixing across different functional classes, and that's what's causing the problem. Look at like healing and growth. Okay? How does that even make sense? BPC157, TB500. This is in the same cylinder, by the way. Not at the not in the same stack. You have to listen. If you miss that part, you're going to misconstrue everything I'm saying. So, healing and growth in the same cylinder. BPC, and I'll explain why this matters. BPC57 and TB500 should not be mixed with a Pamearellin and CJC in the same cylinder ever. Here's why. Different pH stability altogether, different targets, local injury versus systemic endocrine signaling. You're mixing two different scripts for two completely different movies. It's like Avengers and Sound of Music and you're wondering why it sounds like crap. Systemic versus neurological. This is a big one. Don't [ __ ] with this one, you guys. I'm not kidding. Cerebral is it? Wow. Cerebralin is awesome, but it is very complex and it's a very balanced neurotrphic mix. Never ever mix it with anything else ever. That is a standalone compound. Don't. Because here's what happens. People go, "I'm going to mix it with," and I've seen this with CAX or Seank, except here's what happens. You disrupt a very, very, you're messing with your brain. I'm not going to mess with my brain ever. It's the most powerful thing I have right here. You guys got to think about that. Disrupts a very delicate balance. You're throwing a chainsaw into an orchestra and hoping that it sounds better. It's not. It's going to cause more damage. Metabolic and neurological, right? Those kinds those compound, I'm listing compounds. So, semiglutide specifically. I can't stand semaglutide or tzepide because they're both catastrophic. They're disasters. They just have good marketing. They're not good for you at all. Redatride is not even in the same league. So you can't even if you go well it kind of has the same compounds. They're not even playing the same game. But you should never mix these with MC C mitochondrial and NAD or NAD precursors because the pathways are far too complex. The potential for conflicting feedback loops is massive. And again in the same syringe. I'll get to it in a second before you guys go. Okay, when can I do this? Listen, and ser this is a big one. I see you guys doing this all the time. All these I got a blend. You guys are looking for convenience and trying to make a buck. If you're selling it, you're a dick. You're taking people's health for granted. You're capitalizing on people's lack of knowledge. So, I'm coming out here to give them the knowledge. Rad 140, which is a SARM. Absolutely never mixed with Enlomophene together, which is a serum in the same solution. Ever. Ever. Their mechanisms are directly antagonistic at the hormonal level. They don't even do the same thing. This is a like civil war in a bottle. It doesn't even make sense. And here's the one that everybody screws up. GHKCU copper. So, I'll give you the rule of thumb for copper. It should never be mixed with anything ever. And I'll explain why. GHKCU copper needs to be administered alone at all times. At all times. Copper ions are incredibly potent catalysts and they accelerate oxidation and degradation of pretty much any other peptide that you mix with it. So if you want to mix copper with something then just understand that you are destroying everything you just mixed it with. Let me explain the why behind the red list because it always comes back to the three same fundamental pillars of biochemistry. PH and solubility. Can they coexist together without denaturing one or the other? Right? Receptor. So pH and solubility. Can they coexist? Will they coexist without denaturing? Receptor targets. Are you sending a very clear or are you sending a very chaotic signal? Pharmacocinetics. to their half- livives and clearance rates even align or is one going to interfere with the other one's journey because one is going to be cleared while the other one is just ramping up. This is where the problems arise. So the instro doesn't think about these things. The influencer doesn't think about these things. They think about how many sales can I m get and here's my affiliate code. If you notice I don't have an affiliate code cuz I own the [ __ ] company. And yet I put myself on the line every day coming out here going let me share the knowledge. Let me prove that I can help you. Buy from me, don't buy from me. I don't care. I'm still going to Has it ever mattered? Have I ever just stopped showing up and go, "You're not buying from me. I'm not going to give you the I just give you the damn information." Bunch of [ __ ] toddlers online. Which is why it bothers me so much. The Insta bro motto is seehole inject. Make it make sense. Validation is anecdotal. I felt fine when I did it, bro. Which is the worst kind of scientific evidence, just so you know. And the placebo effect is incredibly powerful. It's like the people that say they took oral peptides. They worked for me, bro. No. Your brain is rewarding you for the routine, not the results. and your blood work and a DEXA scan and about a million other variables will prove that I'm right and you're wrong. Wasting money on degraded peptides is very common. Wasting money on bunk is very common. Wasting money on bad advice is very common and not feeling immediate side effects is not proof of safety or efficacy. Please understand that. So the next time you see a comment that says I do it all the time, trust me, bro. I want you to see this instead. Just burn this. This is what was going through my head when I was thinking about doing this today. I want you to see a person who chooses convenience over precision. They choose they value a few saved seconds or a very profound respect for science and human biology. I want you to see a person who is playing chemistry roulette with their body because they lack the curiosity to dig deeper or the knowledge even to bother. Don't be that person. Don't be a dick. Be the person that please, this is your don't [ __ ] with your health. I've almost died for real and I actually ended up filming the whole thing. It wasn't intent for likes and follows. It was to actually go, "This is how bad it can get, and I'm going to come out of the other side because I wear the arm." Be the person who understands that true synergy doesn't come from a mixed syringe. It comes from a very smart, well-put together protocol, which is why all these goofy protocols. Why do you think I have the black card? That's the That's what I'm trying to say is when people go, I don't know. I had some guy go, "Dude, six grand for just for info. I know I have to make money, but come on. Hey, if you're listening to this, [ __ ] you. It's $25,000 for you and I have your name. I'll remember it for everybody else. Eh, six grand for a year. After that, probably end up paying more. True synergy comes from timed sequential administration that respects the rhythm of your biology, which es and flows all day long. So, here I'll even lay it out for you. Take your GHRP first, wait 15 minutes, then take your GHR. Use healing peptides at a separate time of the day from metabolic peptides. Give each compound the solo space, the individual space that they need to perform what they're required or what they're being asked of them to do, what they're going to be telling your body to do. Stop letting lazy guidance of self-appointed experts cost you your results. Listen, your your body, you guys, your body is the most complex system that you will ever own. It makes your computer look like garbage. Stop treating it like a refuge pile for mixed chemical cocktails. You need to demand more for your own life, man. because I I don't I don't [ __ ] with my health. And when I come out here, just so you understand why I'm so intense about this. I look at everybody that's actually willing to listen to what I'm saying and look at you the same way that I look at my wife, my kids, and the people that I love and care about. Which means I would never give you advice that's going to cause you harm. But I'm also going to get in the way of you making stupid decisions. So I'll just make sure you demand more, you understand more, and you actually in the end you get something powerful that you can make work for you. Because the most powerful peptide stack you can ever run isn't in a syringe. It's not in a barrel. It's actually the understanding and the knowledge and and everything that you put right between your ears. So you don't have to I don't want you to need me. I don't want you to need me at all. That's where people go, "Oh, dude, we're going to have to listen to you forever." No. I haven't gone to any of my professors from way back when I was in college cuz I retained the knowledge and now I apply it. Listen, telling you what to do is only about half of this battle. It's 34 minutes in and these podcasts are getting long, but the real magic is when you learn how to do it right. So, let me run through some more stuff to give cuz I just want to give you all the stuff. So, let's let me talk about timing. Creating a protocol that doesn't just avoid screwing up your physiology, it actually orchestrates the signal in your body, all of them, for maximum effect so you get a 50x ROI. Cuz if you're not getting a return on investment on whatever you're taking, there's only two reasons. One, you're doing it wrong. Or two, it is bunk. It is a lot of times the latter. So this is how you move from insta guru influencer to an actual biologist for yourself. Your body doesn't operate on a constant drip you guys. It operates on a rhythm, a very pulsatile rhythm like crescendos and decrescendos. And your job isn't to overwhelm the system. That's what the old school 1975 thinking is. It's to get in front of the orchestra and start getting all the sections to do the things they're supposed to be doing next. So let me let me break down this goal by goal. So if we look at growth hormone, right? the growth hormone pulse because these are the most common ones I can think of off the top of my head. Wish I had notes, I would have written this stuff down. I Pamearellin and CJC1 1295. No DACK again, right? Because we want that pulse. Just so you understand this, the Insta bro is just going to put it together and blast it and go, I don't listen to this guy. I do it all the time. Okay. And you have a third arm growing out of your ass. So, I'll go minute by minute. How about that? Minute zero, I pamearellin. All this is hypothetical, by the way. Minute zero, I pamearellin. This is your your you're you're in the blocks and it's a starter pistol. Pow! And away you go. It binds to the ghrein receptors in your pituitary gland and it screams get ready. It's all it does. Pulse is coming. Get ready. Wait about 15 minutes. This is the most critical step. You're allowing the GHRP to prime the pump. This is why understanding neurology and physiology and endocrinology matters. You're creating this state of heightened sensitivity to the smatotroof cells. Now 15 minutes, even 20 minutes in, now take the CJC. No, DAC. I have to say this a b a bunch of times because otherwise you guys are going to get it all screwed up or even tesamarellin. This is the gh analog. So now it comes onto the scene and it finds the pituitary ready and alert and waiting for its signal. This is why. So now it binds to the gh receptors and it gives that final go signal. Now it stomps on the skinny pedal. But here's why this works so well. You're mimicking the body's natural pulsatile sequence. the GHP the greinatic right signal comes first in the natural order of your own biology. So now it gets followed by and amplified by the way by GHRH. So by spacing them you create a a much larger more physiological pulse than you ever could when you're taking them at the same time in the same barrel. So you're not just making noise, right? You're not just making noise. You're putting together the most elegant symphony you possibly can. And I hope that makes sense because this is the question I get invariably is, "Okay, well, how do I do it?" I just walked you through it. How about um look at healing and systemic support. So BPC157, TB500, they shouldn't be mixed. So if you guys are using blends, here's your sign. Don't don't they don't work the same. Schedule them. They're not even close to the same. So here, I'll make it even easier because this is how I I look at me. I am a walking talking billboard. I've said this dozens of times of what works. I move and function [ __ ] epically. You might want to listen to me because I'm coming out here and just sharing what I do that works cuz I took the time to learn this in the morning. Take BPC57 locally around your injury site if you need. So now this gives you that high concentration exactly where it's needed to promote angioenesis and repair evening. And I'll be very transparent on this. Once in a while I've taken TB500 and it's just made me feel awake. Everybody else I talk to doesn't have that. So maybe it's just a Spartan physiology I got. I have no idea. But in the evening, take TB500 systemically right in the belly fat because its job is to circulate and promote cell migration and overall systemic healing while you sleep. But here's why it works. You're respecting the unique pharmacocinetics of each of those peptides. BPC works best locally. It does. So if you're like, "Well, I take it systemically." So do I. I take it every single day. I take between 500 micrograms and 1 milligram every single day and I will forever. But if I have an injury, oh, I load it up right at the injury because it's sight specific. They are not even close to the same. So if you're going to get in my comments and go, bro, it doesn't have to be sight specific. I looked at this research paper. Okay, don't argue with me then. I'm still right. But here's why this works. Because you're you're respecting those the pharmacocinetics, right? TB500 works best systemically. UPC157 works works best locally. The other thing you're doing is you're avoiding pretty much any chance of this chemical incompatibility by giving them completely separate like hours apart administrations. You're covering both angles, right? Localized repair and entire body support without them ever interfering with each other. Uh cognitive enhancement would be a good one. I think just neurological preventing decline, fixing it, limitless protocols, things like that. So using cerebral andergic which is very good. You could throw fennel paracetam hydroide in there, but I'm going to pull away from that because then I'm going to get too complicated. So, cycle cerebral. It's important. 2 to four week cycles of cerebrain. And by the way, this one is intramuscular, not subq, which means this goes into the muscle. This floods the system with neurotrophic factors, which is like it's like fertilizing the neuronal garden. This thing, the gray matter. post cycle let's say four weeks you go the max four weeks after your cerebral license cycle now you introduce a colonergic like alphagpc is great or some kind of neotropic like cmax here's why you do it after because you've just upregulated the infrastructure and growth pathways and now the chonergic which supports acetylcholine which is the learning and memory neurotransmitter has a richer and much more responsive environment to work in what you're doing is essentially Look at it. Look at it like a farm, right? My my leg is itchy in case you're wondering. I'm not rubbing one out. So, look at it like a farm. You're practicing like neuronal farming is the easiest way I can explain this because first you till the soil, add all the fertilizer, which is cerebral, and then you plant the seeds and water them, which is alpha GPC and Cmax. Doing it simultaneously, that's like trying to plant the seeds while the tractor is still plowing the field. Not going to work. And even if it does, it works very poorly. And if if you want to look at things like fasting support and metabolic issues, so weight loss, autophagy, things like just I'll spin it all together. Oh, redatride, mc tesapenine, semaglutide. I hate talking about this one cuz it's garbage, but some of you guys still have it. So I don't to be honest, I don't want to help you with with semaglutide. I want you to take it and throw it in the trash. It's right up there with surmalin. Garbage. Garbage. Dirty garbage junk. However, some of you guys are going to be like, "No, I love it." You do you boo. This is about managing sides and maximizing efficiency if you're going to do this together. So the rule is with this stuff with reatride mc and tesa fencensine. Never. You ready? Never. Say it with me everybody in your car. I don't care if you're in church. If you're listening to this in church though by the way you're heathen. So never. Again I'm waiting. Say it with me. Never mix. Ever. Bad. Ever. [ __ ] Take your semiglutide or your reatrite on its designated day. Whatever. Let's say it's Monday morning. Make it easy. Your Monday morning because you take it every week. This is going to suppress appetite for days. Redatide makes you hate food. And if it doesn't, if you I tried it, it didn't work. Then you got bunked. If you go, no, it was real. No, it wasn't. No, it wasn't. In 0% of cases, does it not work? Zero. This stuff is like the nuclear option. Just so we're clear. So, take it Monday morning. Now, time the boost. If you're using something like tessapensine for the metabolic for the the metabolic and and focus benefits, take it orally earlier in the day on the days that you need it most. So like a a tough workout day, even a a tough meeting day, you have a lot of things to do. Its effects are insanely sharp and they last about 8 10 hours and then they just taper off. Even if you go, I I couldn't sleep. Well, that's cuz you took it at 2:00 in the afternoon. [ __ ] Don't do that. Here's why it works. You're layering a shorter acting effect on top long acting base, right? So you avoid this constant overwhelming barrage of appetite suppression that leads to a whole bunch of adaptation very quickly. Your body is always fighting for homeostasis whether you like it or not. It's like your workout is only as good as the first time you do it. Whether you want to admit that or not, you ask anybody that is a seasoned vet with training, if you do the exact same workout every time, the first time you do it is the best time you do it. After that, it's only going to get worse. You will adapt. You are an adaptation machine. and you're very good at it. It's in your DNA. God built you, right? So, you can challenge God, but you're going to lose. And I ain't going to do that. So, you're giving your Here's why, this is why this works so well. You're giving your hypothalamus a break, which keeps the compounds effective for significantly longer amount of time. There is a something that I like to call the golden rule of spacing. If you're running multiple compounds for different purposes, this is why people call me. The simplest rule is to space injections by at least 15 to 30 minutes. And if you go, "Ah, it takes time." I don't know what to say to you if you say that, by the way. It just makes me want to smack you in the mouth because this allows the initial compound to begin the journey. It clears the injection site and it already starts to begin to bind to receptors before you introduce an entirely new variable. Does this making sense? It's the difference between having five conversations at once and having five very meaningful sequential conversations. Stop thinking in terms of convenience, you guys. You need to because it's going to wind up costing you and it just it's expensive. That might even be why some of you guys are taking things. You're like, it's not working. Like if you take blends, I don't I don't know what to tell You can keep doing it and if you're like, "Oh, they work for me." Great. I'm not going to argue with you. If you say they work for you, then placebo effect is strong in you. Maybe your midcllorans are high in in placebo stupidity. I really have no idea. If you get it, you get it. Start thinking in time in in terms of physiological and biochemical orchestration. I don't care who they are. I don't care if it's some chemist. I don't care if it's someone with a PhD or 10 PhDs in any kind of chemistry or endocrinology. It doesn't matter. Human biology does not lie. It doesn't work any different than what I just explained. Your protocol isn't a list of chemicals. Please listen to what I'm about to say. It is a schedule of signals. And when you learn the rhythm of your own physiology, you stop forcing your biology and your physiology to comply. Cuz then you wind up in the same space as big pharma, which is that it comes in as a sledgehammer and that never works. Instead, now you start conducting and and giving yourself the right programming and you're just just making code that makes the machine run better, faster, stronger, longer, because that's where the real magic happens. Anyway, I hope that makes sense. I was kind of all over the board with this one, but I really want you guys to understand why you shouldn't be mixing these things. If you want to knock yourself out, I'm just giving you the information. Listen, I hope that helps. Never miss.
