# The Real Info On 10 Peptides (and chems) You Need To Know - Unbreakable Podcast 248

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

I wanted to Coke Zero. You guys can lecture me all you want with your white mochas and laundry list and litany of prescription drugs that you take that you don't need. But no, that's it. So good. There was this commercial when I was a kid, Seven Up. It was this. You know what's weird is I'm actually contemplating whether or not I should explain it this way because somebody's going to go, you can't say that. I don't really care. There's this big bald black guy. Yeah. I think he was in a white suit and he would open up the Seven Up container or the Seven Up uh container. Yeah, the can. And he'd go he'd drink it and he'd go the Uncola. I've just never forgot it. And uh totally pointless. Has nothing to do with this podcast episode, but reminded me of that when I was cracking open this delicious Coke Zero riddled with nanotech that I'm going to have to clear out of my system later. So, I I thought about what I was going to talk about. I was really struggling today. I was struggling. What am I going to teach these people? How am I going to help people? I mean, you come out here and listen to me because you want information and you want to present it in a way that's actually somewhat entertaining. Maybe I'm entertaining, maybe I'm not, but I know I'm gritty. I guarantee you I'm the grittiest doctor you've ever heard. But then I thought, you know what I've started to see is a really alarming trend, and that is the number of self-proclaimed experts on social media. It's a it's a shitow that are doing out, excuse me, advice. But let me I've said this before, but listen, this is the part that pisses me off on doses, dosing and mixing and like the reconstitution instructions, the dosing instructions that are totally false to the point where they're not going to do any good whatsoever or they're going to do harm. That bugs me, especially when somebody that's doing it is supposed to be trustworthy. I saw this one this one doc that was talking. He just jumped on the bandwagon because he wasn't getting traction with the social media. But he started spitting out all this all of a sudden mysteriously, right, his peptide information. And I think what's funny is I looked at his doses and I thought, you're clearly don't understand physiology or human biology. In fact, you're just a big dumb idiot. Pisses me off because people trust this guy with their health. I see that and I go, you're not trustworthy with anybody's health. So, I come out here and I give you all the information. Anyway, that's what today's about. You can listen, you can bypass. This might be a little longer than normal. I don't know. Maybe it'll be fast. I'm hungry. I want to go eat. And I have a hundred fires to put out today. It's my whole life, right? As I put out fires. I just had my Monday Q&A, my Unbreakable Mastermind Q&A. Man, it was banging today. We were popping off today hard. And it was And sometimes it is business, sometimes it's psychology, sometimes it's there's so many aspects of this and sometimes it is just purely medical. Why? because nobody's giving out the real advice and the information at all. Everybody's doing it with layers and safeties in place. And I could say this, but I really don't want to. And I don't want to get in trouble. But I give away the secret and then they're never going to come back as a patient. You know what's wild? You guys start with me. Like I said, I have the cure program. I don't hide it. I am very transparent. If you can't come up with the money, I am not for you. And that's totally fine. If you find a workaround to go, is there a way I can get it cheaper by joining your mastermind and then just peppering you with questions? I'm going to tell you no. and I will answer questions on the call. I won't let you monopolize the call for all the advice you need because that's not fair to everybody else. And if you send me messages during the week, I'm going to tell you to pound sand because I'm not one-on-one with you. I don't get it. Some of you guys try and game it. You go, "Well, if I if I join, can I can I ask you questions during the week?" And then you text me back. Why don't you text me back, man? I ask you all these questions. Because you didn't pay me. Because that's how rigid I am about this. Not because I don't want you to have the information during the week. Because the people that pay me to have access to me all the time and actually get one-on-one for real deserve better cuz they paid for more. I think that's fair. If I have no line, what's the point? So, I have I only have three one-on-one programs, just three. I I have two that are designed solely around health. And if you go, what's a third one? And does it have to do with health? It can. It's just significantly more money. One is it's the cure program. I only have two options, 25 days or 100 days. I decide which one it is because it's based on what you need help with. And if you go, well, if I don't tell you everything, maybe I can just get in and then I can ask you a bunch of questions. Well, that'll make me go, you're a liar and this is going to take a really long time, which means I don't want you as a patient or a client. And I'm very selective. I had somebody ask me today, well, maybe is there a place on a website that I can click a link and find out more information about it? No, I choose. I'm in a time in my life and a place in my life where I choose because I'm exceptional at what I do to the point where people ask me for advice because they know that I'm not going to snow them or snake them or f them over or steer them in the wrong direction. My job as a as a doctor, as a consultant, as a coach is always the same. To get you to a place where you don't need me at all, where you have all the information and you can do it all on your own and you stick around because once in a while you slow down and you need someone to kick you in the ass to keep you going. But you don't need me because you have it. That's a good coach. All of you insta bros and insta coaches out there making people stay on your programs for years and years and years on end because you make them feel they have to. I had a coach like that. He was a [ __ ] and cost me time and money by listening to them. And I am far more successful and influential and requested than he ever was now because I stopped listening to somebody that was trying to limit me and make me hooked on them. I don't want you to be hooked on me. I want you to never need me again. And the reason you stick around or you still coach with me or you join a lifetime program with me is because you go, I like it when I start to falter. You make sure I get back up. Exactly. And just so you know, I have a coach. I think people I think coaches that have no coaches, zero zero chance. I'm Nope. Not going to work. So 25 days, 100 days. Those are the two options in the cure program. 25 days, 25,000. 100 days, 100,000. No, there is not a discount for spending more time with me. you're still taking time away from me and my family and dipping into the vast amount of knowledge and wisdom I have on how to solve your health problem, your current problem psychologically, physically, physiologically, human biology, all of it. And like I said, I'm exceptional at it, but that's it. So, if you go, "Is there anything else?" No. Can I ask you some one-on-one questions during the Unbreakable Mastermind? You can, but they're you're going to get a very generic answer. I give you everything I can in the span of about five minutes. And then the other one is my one-on-one inner circle coaching program, business, all of it. That's 100 grand. That's it. It's all I got. And I can explain that one, but I just don't really feel like it right now. But if you want health and you have problems and you need solutions and you actually value, does it come with anything? No. It comes with the guy telling you what to do. And then when you're done, I let you go with all the information, knowledge, and the results, which is the point. So there you go. Now you have it. I don't I'm transparent as hell with all my stuff because there's no all these let me get you on a call. Let me talk to you. Let me try and get you to do this. No, I only want people that go absolutely no problem. Let's do this. How do I can I send you the wire right now? Yeah. But here's what I realized is all these all the information and the doses and the bro science insta expert [ __ ] that's coming out telling you guys what to do is going to cause you problems. I mean, look at look at the circus, man. These Instagram lab coat cosplay brigade. You know who I'm talking about? He's shredded in the mirror, looking at myself in my phone, flexing a bicep. It's like the size of a cantaloupe, confidently ripping off peptides and doses like they're cracking open little fortune cookies. Bro, you just slam 5 milligs of this and then you stack it with a vial of that and you pin it in your butt cheek or stick it in your abdomen or subq and you're going to be shredded, bro. And you're going to get rid of this is works better than aderall, bro. This gets you to sleep better, bro. This gives you an erection for 9 hours, bro. All this stuff. But these guys couldn't tell you the difference between a pituitary and a [ __ ] pistachio. It irritates me because they throw numbers around because they sound smart to themselves and they they parrot dosages and I just it bothers me. No concept how how the human body actually functions, how physiology actually works, let alone getting it to the nervous system. Yes, it aggravates me. And here's the wild part is I I love you guys for being here, but some of you kumquats actually listen to this stuff because the guy has veins across his abs and half a million followers and suddenly he is the oracle of human biology. You know, he says BPC. Oh, and by the way, before I get into this, before I even come just about to launch, all of this is hypothetical and educational and purely for entertainment and it's not intended to advise or cure or prescribe or diagnose or even tell you what to do. It's just all for fun. Now that we got that out of the way, this guy with his abs and his veins on his abs and all the nonsense, which is great, but that doesn't make you an expert other than somebody that knows how to get veins on your abs. But, you know, take 10 milligs of BPC every day, bro, for life. And people line up like lemmings for this stuff, ignoring the fact that those numbers don't even make sense physiologically. That's like telling somebody to pour a gallon of motor oil into their Civic because more lube equals more horsepower. Wrong system, wrong scale. brain. You guys do understand that the human is not like your biology isn't a vending machine. You don't just put money in it and it spits stuff out, right? You don't just crank the lever and the six-pack just shows up in exchange for random milligrams. It always requires the work. But physiology also has these feedback loops and endocrinology has massive thresholds in place intended to keep you safe. They're designed for that. Neurology has these bouncers and gate gatekeepers and everything in your body is all about signaling. It's not blunt force. That's what the pharmaceutical system is doing is that is just blunt force, brute force cause in your body and the result is chaos for the most part. I'm not dogging on the medical world when it's there for emergencies before somebody goes, "Yeah, but didn't some surgeon save your life?" No, God saved my life. The surgeon guided his hands and I healed all the things that he took out and fixed and cut and all that stuff, but he didn't save my life. God did. And if you really boil it down, I I've never saved anybody. No doctor anywhere, any time in the history of mankind has ever saved anybody or cured anybody of anything. They did. They just got all the crap and the static out of the way or found out where the problem was and told them exactly what to do. Listen, that's why I'm saying these Insta experts think peptides are just protein powders that you inject no matter what. They really don't understand. They don't, like I say all the time, get them to spell acetylcholine. You want to have fun, get them to spell it backwards. They don't understand that peptides are keys. wrong dose, wrong receptor, wrong timing, and you're jamming the wrong key into the wrong damn lock and wondering why you get hormone irregularity and receptor desensitization. So, I'm not Listen, today isn't about it's every day. I don't come out here to play bro science fantasy football with peptides. I come out here to break down the full arsenal of things that work and what the dosing is and the length of time and map them on to your physiology. And if you don't want that, you don't understand that, I ain't for you, bro. Because I want you to I want this is for you. I want you guys to have more understanding than the average online coach has with a lifetime of selling cookie cutter peptide protocols and business protocols when their business is telling you that they can help you be successful in your business. Ow. I told you my wife has said this for two decades. It's like you you have had seven and eight figure businesses long before it was sexy and trendy to talk about them online and take pictures. I never walked around showed people my watch. I It didn't matter. It still doesn't matter. I don't give a crap. I just like the watch. I know some people go, "It looks like a garage door opener with a rubber strap." I like I actually like it. I like it. And And who cares? So, how about this? 10 compounds, not all peptides. and exactly what the dosing what the frig the dosing is, why, how long, and what it's for. How about that? And then you can take all this knowledge and you can stack it away into your brain and you could go toe-to-toe with all the bro science insta idiots who think they know what they're talking about that you just want to punch in the face. So, how about this? Start with your mitochondria. M C. This M, this is your forever molecule, man. Hypothetically, I got to say this, hypothetically, you would be looking at 3 to 5 milligs every other day. And for how long? indefinitely. Indefinitely. And unlike the bro science crowd, I'll actually tell you why indefinitely makes sense other than putting money in their bank account. And and if you ask me, cuz I get this question all the time. Okay, but what about sourcing it? Okay, everybody pay attention. I'm going look at the camera. Elite Biogenics, I'm the [ __ ] CEO. Stop asking me. You guys listen to these and I don't get it. Okay, but what what about sourcing it and getting it? Holy [ __ ] Is it it is at the bottom of every single post I make, every podcast I do? It is there is an actual clickable link. All the research studies that I give you guys all for free that I bleed and stay awake at night for to make sure you actually understand what the [ __ ] is going on and how to do it. If you don't understand it, you need to learn some more comprehension because yes, that ticks me off. But the other side of it is written when I go pay attention to the highlighted areas. There's a reason. There's a damn reason now you know. Go there, buy it. I don't come out here to go, I'm going to tell you this to market, you know, and get you guys to buy my [ __ ] Go buy it somewhere else and go buy it from your local gym bro in the, you know, who says he's smarter and then tell him to go live with me, though. I'll wait. Set your eye sockets on fire. I've forgotten more than most people will ever learn about this stuff. So, MC C, let me get back on track before I go off on some tirade. M C activates. Remember what I told you? This is the sensor is the easiest way to explain it. Adenazine monofh phosphate activated protein kindness is what it is. It's the cellular thermostat for energy. Think of ofkpa just a bunch of acronyms, right? Your body's accounting. Your body's accountant. It constantly measures the ATP AM ratio inside your cell. So adenazine triphosphate to adenazine monophosphate because you're breaking two sets of bonds in order to get there, right? triphosphate to diphosphate to monophosphate inside your cells. Too little ATP, ATP and AMPK slams the panic button, right? Fatty oxidation, burn fat, increase glucose uptake, boost autophagy. Yeah, really. You don't just have to fast it. It forces your cells into hyperefficiency mode. And that's not just for weight loss, by the way. That is survival with a capital S. And neurologically, because I think if I don't break this down into sections, you guys aren't going to get it. MOT CI enhances neuronal insulin sensitivity, not just systemic. That means your brain cells stop drowning in glucose and start metabolizing fuel. Excuse me. A car that's running perfectly with all the emissions stripped off, right? Instead of a lawnmower sputtering in old gas you found in your dad's garage. And EMPK when you turn this on it activates or it reduces rather hyperinsulinemia which is oh god this is the silent killer between behind obesity diabetes heart disease all of that. It means your your insulin is you're making more in order to mitigate a problem but making more doesn't help it and all you do is cause further desensitization and phys physiologically you're just turning every cell into some hybrid engine. That's what this work that's what this does. It can run fat, can run glucose, run ketones, whatever's available without breaking down. Constantly cranking out those little nuclear reactors, constantly cranking out adenazine triphosphate. That's why this is a forever thing because mitochondria never ever retire. They adapt and they contort. And I don't mean physically. They just modify themselves according to the situation demand placed upon them until they can't, which is where this comes in. You keep giving them the ammpk signal and they're going to keep burning cleaner and repairing faster and aging a lot more slowly. Meanwhile, Karen at the freaking office is still arguing about whether or not she should try keto again while mainlining Starbucks muffins. This is where like and Karen's the one giving you advice. Stop listening to the Karens or the Steves. That's the one. That's a male version for me at least. Sorry if your name's Steve. Nothing personal. Now, how about this? The one I got the most traction on was Slooh. Slooh PP330. God, the bro Science came out with the water going, "Yeah, you could totally mix it with water. You're dead wrong on this one, bro. It is hydrophobic chemistry 101. You can't take it orally in any form other than mixed with DMSO. And then why? It's transdermal. I told you DMSO is like a freight train. Just sucks that thing right into your system like this. It's just clean. So I said nitro gloves clean. But hypothetically, two and a half to five milligrams transermally. Let me try that again. Two and a half to five milligrams transdermally EOD every other day. And here's why. If you dump this into your stomach, the first pass degradation is going to chew it up and spit it out through your skin. It byp This is why I said it bypasses the liver and the boot camp and the sewage plant that you have inside here that's designed to reduce everything to chum. So now it actually reaches systemic circulation. Here's what it does. It activates I've said this before. This is why it's fun for me. PP A delta. It's just such a fun thing to say, right? PP AR delta. That is peroxazone proliferator activated receptor delta. I figure I may as well tell you what these things are. This is the nuclear switch that dictates endurance and fat metabolism and oxidative capacity. When you flip this switch and your body shifts from being this carb burning minivan to a fat burning endurance supercar, that's what this does and that's what you want. It shifts the way your body is procuring energy. You increase mitochondrial biogenesis which means you make more mitochondria. making more nuclear reactors in your system. Never a downside. Ever. Always an upside. That's like That's like upgrading every cell from single batteries to full Tesla power wall. You know what that is? You improve you improve lipid profiles and you drop triglycerides and you boost LDL and you improve neuronal endurance because brain cells love fatty acid oxidation. When it's available, it's cleaner and it generates fewer reactive oxygen species. The other thing is your brain is an energy hog. 20% of your your energy goes to keeping your brain just working the way it is right now. Not even when it's working hard trying to do things. I mean just running just sitting there idling in your driveway. Right. People are terrified of molecules like Slooh PP332 because they sound unnatural. I love these. It's not authentic. Dude, you saying that is not authentic. These same geniuses are dry drowning their liver in beer and call it just a few drinks every Friday. Yeah, alcohol is natural. So is [ __ ] arsenic then that that game doesn't work that I'm going to be on here forever. I just looked at 23 minutes up there and I'm only two in. Maybe I'll only do five today. I don't know. We'll see. Maybe I'll do five today and five tomorrow. Epitoolon is another one. I see these instant twits giving the wrong information, wrong dosage. You don't even have a clear understanding of what it does. 10 milligrams subq subcutaneous in the belly fat. In the belly fat. I'll say it again. In the belly fat for 20 days. Not forever. Not when you feel like it, not whenever you get around to it, but a defined cycle. And here's why. Because a pitilon targets telmmerase activation. Telmmerase is the enzyme that rebuilds your telomeirs. These are those the aglet. Remember I I use the aglet because it's easy to picture. I even talked about it today. That's the end cap, that shoelace cap at the end of DNA that for lack of a better explanation determines determines how fast you age. Telmir attrition is one of the hallmarks of aging. So every cell division shortens them the telomeirs epitoolon resets the clock by upregulating timmerase and that therefore it keeps them from shrinking and getting frayed and you don't have to keep cutting them down. It sticks an aglet on the end. So every cell division they just stay doing what they're instead of cells becoming senicin right also influences melatonin secretion. So, it fixes that circadian rhythm problem you've got. And proper circadian rhythm means you get improved synaptic plasticity and you get better memory and you get better repair during sleep because you actually sleep. Because I've said this before, but taking an ambient and being I just Oh, it knocked me out for like eight hours. These people that take a Xanax and an ambient and two glasses of wine to fly over the pond because they can't stand flying. Dude, you're going to wake up and you're going to be in a country you didn't think you were going to, missing a kidney. Are you nuts? And the second part is when you take things like that, you do not reach delta sleep. You don't get that deep repair sleep. So you're not you're not reinforcing memory and putting them into where they need to go. You're not repairing tissue and dumping off all the toxins and waste cuz your body's not doing what it needs to do. That's what sleep does. Just so you know, 20 days is the sweet spot. It's long enough to trigger the cascade and it's short enough to avoid receptor fatigue, which you always have to be concerned about in things like this. Think of it as um I talked to one of the ladies at the at the bank and she said, "Every year at the beginning or at the end of the year and at the beginning of the year, we deep clean one room every weekend in our house." That's what this is. Deep cleaning protocol for your DNA. Meanwhile, here's the problem. Go back to Karen at the office. Botox Karen is stabbing her forehead to look younger while her chromosomes are unraveling like a bunch of cheap shoelaces on her what garbage boots that she bought. I really don't know. I got nothing for it. I ran out of steam on that one. I'm just totally transparent. I just don't care. I don't even edit this stuff anymore. I just put it out and if you like it, great. If you don't, great. It's easier. I don't have time to sound perfect cuz I'm far from it. Like I said, the number of run-on sentences and hiccups and goof ups in my in my posts and my podcasts. I don't care. This is just me. You either like me or you don't. I'm a bald dude that's gritty. Who's Yep. One of the probably the most real exceptional doctors on the planet because I actually know what I'm doing. I think two of the ones I've seen the biggest issues with are the healing peptides. I'm hesitant to call them that because they do more than that. But BPC 157, TB500. This should be a state. This should be in everybody's refrigerator, not reconstituted. By the way, if you're getting reconstituted peptides or blends from people, you're the mark for their sales and you're also an idiot. If it is reconstituted, the shelf life of that, it's not surviving the trip to your house, man. Cuz it's going to get hot, cold, thrown around, broken. Remember, you can't shake peptides. They're fragile. That's all the stuff you think that it's going into a USPS. Oh, I paid for I paid 40 bucks for overnight shipping. It still gets kicked around like that. You're they're slam dancing your package into the next zip code. If it comes reconstituted and you fall for it, you deserve it. You're an idiot. They're worthless. If you say they're not, oh no, they're great, bro. I just I don't have to do all that mixing. Then you don't want something that works. Nothing that we have is reconstituted. Just so you know. Why? Because you can take leophalized powder and it'll last 20 years like that as long as you don't expose it to a bunch of bright light. Light is incredibly damaging to any chemistry, by the way. Just throw it in a brown bag, throw it in a box, and put it in your fridge and leave it there until you need it. not reconstituted, just leave it. BPC57, one milligram every day at the injury site for 10 to 20 days. Here's why. It's because it drives angiogenesis, new blood cell formation. You need that amount of time and you need a good dosage that does it. It also helps collagen remodeling. You inject it systemically and you get some benefit. You do. It's actually I take it systemically every day, but it's not for the injury mitigation. You inject it at the injury site and you construct you create a construction zone with it's a full tear down and rebuild. They don't tear it down to the sticks. They tear it down to the concrete and rebuild the entire structure ready to take on a class 5 chronic use, which is it's a weird way to say it, but it's easiest way to explain it. It's I take 500 micrograms every day, sometimes one milligram every day. I just I'm not going to stop taking it forever hypothetically, right? You can take it forever. I always have to say that. It's a weird [ __ ] world we live in, right? It's because BPC isn't just about tendon repair. It's regulates nitric oxide pathways. It balances vasoddilation and vasoc constriction. It protects the endothelium of your blood vessels. It stabilizes your gut lining, which the gut lining is that one cell by the way, one one cell, that barrier between your bloodstream and that sewage soup of bacteria in here. And never mind neurologically, it protects against glutamate toxicity. So, it saves your neurons from frying during stress. It's the primary excitatory neurotransmitter. What do you think they're going to that thing when it hits the gas torches torches your your neurons? Just torches them. You look at TB500. Oh, I like this stuff. It's good. Just never mind about the cardio and healing qualities. It has so many other things. 5 milligrams every 5 days for 6 to 8 weeks for healing. That's your That's the acute rebuild, right? And then 2 and a half to 5 milligrams weekly for forever. TB peptides modulate act the act inside of skeleton, right? the scaffolding inside every single cell that allows migration and regeneration and all the communication. Think of it as the body's construction form and it's telling people or telling workers where to go, what to do, and how long to do it, and the level they're supposed to play, right? Directing all of these cellular crews to the job sites that are required. You don't even have to think about that. So, without it, your repair is chaos. With it, your repair is very well orchestrated and controlled and on the skinny pedal. That's the gas, by the way. And here's the rub. People think that ibuprofen and ice baths are recovery. That's symptom suppression. Say it again. That doesn't solve the problem at all. It just makes you think the problem's gone. Problem's still there. They don't heal anything. Ensidates don't heal anything. Rice and price dated and ridiculous. Recovery is literally rebuilding the infrastructure of your body. Peptides do that. TB does that exceptionally well. What are we half hour in? Let's keep rolling. So, DIP is another one I've seen and I just I took notes on which ones I see people making the biggest mistakes on. This is another one. Delta sleep inducing peptides. So you're looking hypothetically 100 to 500 micrograms for 2 to 4 weeks. Short short. You don't need to take this. This is to reset the system and get it working the way it's designed and then stop taking it. It's not a lifetime molecule. It's a reset button. Dip normalizes sleep architecture which means you don't just sleep. You actually cycle through slow wave and REM correctly. The normalizes the growth hormone pulses and the cortical rhythms, the cortisol rhythms. So because it does that by modulating GABA and MD it does that by modulating GABA and pathways. BPC-157 helps with mitigating the glutamate issue when you hyperexite your neurons with glutamate. Right? So all of these things work together very very well but BPC57 you can take forever. Dip no way. Don't you don't need to short cycles because you don't want to downregulate the receptors. It's like tuning a piano guitar or whatever. I mean I play piano. You don't keep cranking on that thing until it snaps. You reset it, get the tune right, and then just leave it alone and then you once in a while you tweak it so you get the tune back because it loses its tune. People brag about sleeping 4 hours a night. This is what's weird. I sleep four to 5 hours a night, but I don't brag about it. I just go, "This is me. I don't go I sleep less than you so I get more done than you." I don't care. You want to sleep 9 hours? Go for it. If that's what you need, that's what you need. And that's what people are really, they're confused on social media because they think that, well, I sleep less, therefore I am much more powerful than you. I get more done. I'm much more noble and righteous. And they virtue signal the [ __ ] out of everything telling you that you suck because you sleep too much. But what if that's what you need? Being sick doesn't help anybody. I don't know if you guys have figured that out yet. So, I sleep 4 to 5 hours a night. I have been this way from the very beginning. So, if somebody goes, "That's not healthy, bro." It's never anybody that's more healthy than me. Just saying. So, people bragging about sleeping four hours a night like it's some achievement or badge of honor. That's like bragging your car only runs on one cylinder and it's a V8. Congrats, you're impressive. Right up until you blow the engine. Forcing yourself to do it doesn't help. It just makes you an imbecile and you're trying to do it for cloud on social media. Kiss Pepin 10. I got to talk about it cuz I wasn't going I was literally going to bail and go in the house and just finish this up and do the other five tomorrow. But Kiss Pepin 10. Man, this stuff's awesome. I have to cuz I talked about it tonight. This is the fertility ignition key for the the nitromemethane fertility dragster. Keep your mind out of the gutter or let it go. Whatever. It's still funny. Pathetically, men and women have different dosage. Men, see, even that most people don't know. When I talked about the Slooh, I got more messages from people like, "Fuck, I had no idea." It's because every insta idiot Nimbell thinks they're an expert until somebody proves that they're not because they can't even spell the word science, let alone understand it. So, hypothetically, the dosing for men would be 100 to 500 micrograms. women half a milligram 500 micrograms but I say it different so you remember it differently half a milligram to 1.5 millig two to three times a week 8 weeks 10 weeks max peptin cranks up G&RH secretion from the hypothalamus right which triggers luteinizing hormone and follical stimulating hormone released from the pituitary the LH and FSH right that stimulates testosterone in men estrogen in women and you're literally rebooting the HPG axis so hypothalamic pituitary gonatalis access. Kiss peptin also has some pretty cool mood effects. And I could get into it because there's some really fun things it does, but just understand that mitigates negativity and propagates positivity and I don't want to say cuddle because it sounds incredibly gay, but it's like you just feel good, right? Because reproduction and emotional state are linked at the hypothalamic level. That's why if you really want to know the neurology behind it, short cycles because over stimulation desensitizes G&RH receptors and you want ignition, not some total burnout. It's the same reason why I tell people I take HCG. Usually the dosage is 10,000, right? But they split it into two doses of 5,000, but you can burn out the latic cells. They the cells that do sperm and testosterone, you can burn them out if you take too much. So you have to be careful with this. This is why knowledge is actually really important. I want you to just have the skeleton to lean on so you can go, I already know what now I know what this does and what you're telling me, Mr. or Mrs. Bro, science idiot, is [ __ ] Why? Cuz this guy gave me all the facts. Elite Biogenics, by the way, if you're going to ask me again where to get it, if you're halfway through this, listen, couples will, this is the part that pisses me off, couples will drop 20, 30, 40, 50, 60 grand on IVF because science says that's what they should do. And it is not, it has such a low success rate. I mean, I I know girls in high school that were more successful getting pregnant in the backseat of a car on a drunken Friday night after a party and it was free. So, not with me. I'm just saying before you guys like, "What? I got to find that out." No, it has nothing to do with me. I just I went to college. I went to high school. I'm 52. I've been around a while. So, you can spend all that money, but Kiss Pepin is sitting there just like the ignition key. They never bothered to just turn. I don't know. What do you think? Should I keep going? All right. Reddit true tide. This one's a fun one because it's the longevity. This is a longevity peptide. It just happens to also be labeled as a fat loss peptide, but longevity baby all day. Start at 0.25.25 milligrams per week. 0.25. 0.25 for all you guys going, "So, I'm going to start at two." No. 0.25 milligrams per week. You start at 2 milligrams. I don't care what you've been on before. Sema, Tursza, bio, whatever nonsense you're taking that isn't working, that is garbage, that plateaued, that's going to have a worse rebound than your last X. It's going to be terrible. Get off that garbage now. Now, because it's missing critical components that reatite doesn't. Reatrutide has all the stuff you need. It prevents sarcopenia. It tells your body it the glucagon agonist alone demands that your body burns the right thing and saves your muscle. Like that alone is just worth it. So 0.25 milligrams per week, titrate up to usually what I see is people get up to about 12 milligrams per week for fat loss. But don't start there. And you guys going, well, I should take two or I should titrate reatride up while weaning off of tzepatide or semigluc glutide. God, I just want to smack these guys. You can tell I'm getting hungry because I'm starting to screw up my words because I'm starving. I haven't eaten very much in the last two days. I've been putting out fires. Listen, you think my life is all rosy and awesome all the time. My life, see right there, my life is non-stop [ __ ] stress, and that's okay. I like putting on fire, so this is going to be a really long podcast cuz I'm just going to keep going. But it also beats you down a little bit. Remember, I'm 52. I promise you, I work harder than you think. 12, 14, 16 hour days. And some yo-yo out there's like, "It's terrible. You're not present or connected to anything. You need balance, bro." No, because I have a goal and my time on this planet is incredibly short. 4,000 weeks is about the average. If you're not where you want to be, you guys get your head out of your ass and start doing something about it because tomorrow, just to be very transparent, you have less time than you have today. So, if you say, "I'll do it tomorrow." You just made it harder, take longer, cost more, and become less likely of that you're going to achieve. Why would you do that? Tomorrow's a lie. It's an illusion that you tell yourself, right? Cuz today, do you have more time today than tomorrow? Absolutely. Did you have more time yesterday than today? Yep. So when you say tomorrow, you're lying to yourself and everybody else around you because you think for some reason it's going to be easier, but yet it history has proven it. Your history has proven that it's not easier because you have less time. Make it make sense. If you're going to use Red True Tide for longevity 0.1 to 0.25 milligrams per week forever, forever. If you go, well, but I just I'm not trying to lose weight. That's not what it does. That's almost the byproduct of what it does. Remember triple agonist GLP1, GIP, glucagon. That means it lowers appetite, improves glucose control massively, and accelerates fat oxidation simultaneously. All at the same time, restores insulin sensitivity, reduces pancreatic load, so it's not all confused trying to figure out what the hell you're doing with your calories. Improves nutrient partitioning in a way that you can't even get your head around. It's so effective. Leptin signaling. The GLP-1 agonism reduces neuroinflammation and protects you against Alzheimer's, that pathology. So, why would you not want to take this stuff? And at high doses, you are a fat burning nuclear engine. And at low doses, you're protecting metabolic function for life. Oh, but is it safe long term? That's the question I get all the time. Was it safe long term? As they shove processed food into their bark hole every day long term, obesity kills thousands of people a day. Red True Tide isn't the unsafe one. Your lifestyle is Yeah, I got to talk about this because I wasn't going to, but I I Let's come out of the gate and tell you how much. 0.25 25 milligrams daily for 26 weeks. You can go up to 1 milligram, but you shouldn't need to. 0.25 0.25 just like rea. But here's why. 6 months because tessapensine is a triple reuptake inhibitor, right? Not agonist, triple reupt. It works in a different place. Triple reuptake inhibitor. Dopamine norepinephrine, serotonin. So that's appetite suppression, mood enhancement, and metabolic acceleration. Norepinephrine increases thermogenesis. real, not some weird cream that you rub on your waist thinking it's going to make you slim, but real thermogenesis through beta adronergic receptors. Dopamine boosts motivation. We know this. It's why you guys scroll Tik Tok and Instagram all day long, but also movement and drive and serotonin stabilizes satiety, the urge to eat, and prevents these binge rebounds that people have. Tessens, by the way, also increases synaptic neurotransmitter availability, which means stronger signaling. So the signals don't just propagate better, they propagate stronger with much more punch behind them. So they get horsepower versus torque, right? Torque is what wins races, by the way. That's why the Buick GNX, which dude, I want one so bad. That Grand National, man, I I want one so bad. They used to be cheap. I realized it's total pivot. Just wanted cuz they're torquy. They have that monster turbo. It's like a Buick Regal with a hurricane shoved under the hood. And if you don't like it, don't care. My show, I think they're badass. anyone wants to get me a gift. You go ahead and pull one of those into my driveway for I don't know coming out here every day. I just want one. They're so badass. I realize it's a simple car, right? 87 88. Not a Regal Type GNX. Long before it got popular on Fast and Furious, it's just a gangster car. These things were smoking everything on the road back in the day. But torque, right? Torque. That's what this does to your neurotransmitter availability. The Tesla fencing, right? Even the fact that it indirectly reduces hyperinsulinemia and improves energy partitioning. This stuff is so good. You just can't stay on it for a really long time. And it is not a replacement for aderall despite what God these guys are. Oh, you just take this. It's like aderall. No, it's not even close. It's not even close. 26 weeks, by the way, is long enough to reset any body composition problem you've got. After that, you taper off just to avoid all the desensitization problems. And here's the issue. The same people that binge cocaine or aderall at parties act scandalized that tessentine even exists. That sounds dangerous. Yeah, Brenda. So is your wine and tequila addiction in your only fans site. Are you nuts? Gh. Copper 300 to 500 micrograms every day forever because collagen breakdown never takes a holiday. I don't know if you figured that out, but we're always getting older and getting more beat up. So GH GHKCU binds copper and activates wound healing pathways. It's the easiest way to explain it. Signals fibroblasts to start cranking out collagen and elastin. It modulates cytoine cascades. So it knocks down all those horrible inflammatory processes. So it gets rid of that chronic inflammation that you've got going on, which is everybody right now, which is the backbone of a lot of labeled diseases. Even though they're not diseases, they are a result of chronic inflammation. It upregulates gene expression for repair and downregulates expression for degeneration. So it swaps it just swings the pendulum to the other side of the fence. And people isn't that really bad? You're supposed to have balance and homeostasis. You wreck that by turning into an inflammatory machine and forever because aging doesn't stop. You keep signaling youth genes and you keep looking and functioning younger. You don't. And welcome to being a daughtering old idiot that could have done something about it. I'm not saying you're going to extend your life and do things unnaturally. I'm saying you're taking advantage of what your body is fully capable of doing. So people, listen, people will spend 10 grand on some kind of weird cosmetic surgery on their face, ignoring the molecule that makes your skin behave younger from the inside. That's like a collapsing, degraded, disgusting, condemned house instead of just fixing the [ __ ] foundation. You guys, I'm trying to help you, man. You could look I think that's 10, but you could you could that's all the ones I wrote down. You could zoom out and you could listen, you could take all this together if you really wanted to. You don't have to, but let's just say you did. Look at this. Look at this chaos that has turned into something beautiful just by me coming out here and going on a rant about the bro science that doesn't know how to give you doses properly. But look at the arsenal you've put together. Mott C turns your mitochondria into hybrid high-performance supercar engines and Slooh PP332 upgrades endurance and fat metabolism. Epitoolon, right, that was the next one. Pipitoolon resets telomeir so you don't die and your cells don't become senocin. BPC and TB repair your tissues. Dip actually gives you your sleep back and restores your chicading rhythm so you heal and file away memories so you're not a forgetful broken down old man or woman. And kiss pepin restarts fertility. You can even take this stuff while you're on TRT. It works really well. It's not the beall endall if your dosages are really high of TRT, but it works really well. Redatride melts fat, extend fenine, resets drive and appetite so you run perfectly like you did when you were 19. And GHKCU copper rejuvenates skin and connective tissue. Why would you not want to do all this stuff? Energy repair, longevity, hormones balanced, fertility restored, insulin sensitivity is back. Mood is stabilized. Drive is ignited again. Your libido is back. Your brain is protected. Your neurons have armor on them. This is how you run the operating system at full capacity. Like the world is drowning, you guys. The world is drowning in advice from insta bros who couldn't spell hypothalamus if you spotted them the damn vowels. And people follow them because they look jacked, ignoring the fact that half their protocols are like pouring gasoline into a diesel engine, wondering why it breaks. And then they ask, "But is this safe?" As if alternative chronic disease or obesity or pharmaceuticals that wreck your liver is the safe bet. The truth is this. Safe is the scam. In biology, there is no safe. Biology is ruthless. You guys understand that there is no safe. There is adaptation. There is capacity. There is ideal function. And then there is decay. Which one you choose depends on whether you read the manual or just follow the guy with the most likes and followers. But entropy is not going anywhere except into your life. So, hope this helps you. Gives you some guidance. I'm out of here. It's been a late night. Never miss. [Music]
