# Preventing, Eliminating and Healing From Blood Clots - Unbreakable Podcast 214

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

So this is all hypothetical, educational, experimental. It's not meant to diagnose, treat, cure, prescribe, advise anything. This is just all for fun. We good? All right. Now, let's get to work. It's about clotting. So clotting is a big deal. Without getting into thromben and proth thrombin and vitamin K and fibbrin and fibbrinogen and all these things, before we get into all of that stuff, understand clots don't care about how fit you look. And I need you to understand because a clot when it breaks off and does things will do very bad things to you. They don't care if you're a CrossFit beast. A clot doesn't care if you're a marathon runner or if you're the kind of person who licks an apple and counts almonds for portion control. like it doesn't care if the internal chemistry of your your system, right? If your biology is broken, you are one clot away from a stroke or portal vein thrombosis your liver or waking up in the ICU trying to figure out what year it is. It's a big deal because it there's no warning no matter what. And if you run in and start getting MRIs and CT scans and all this stuff, you're just doing dumb things. Just listen to what I'm going to tell you. And if some doctor told you you have a clot and there's nothing we can do and let's just hope for the best and we'll leave it, not worry about it. Even if you have a DVT, it doesn't matter. Deep vein thrombosis right in the calf. So listen, let's just be honest. Most of you watching this, if you're watching this, you already know something's off. Like this isn't like you're watching this because something's bugging you or somebody hasn't been able to help you. You know what's interesting is like I said, I've been a doctor for a long time and a lot of people come to me because nobody has helped them. They've given them cookie cutter diagnosis by exclusion BS. Even a very very dear friend of mine, him and his entire family diagnosed his wife with a diagnosis of exclusion and it's a lazy diagnosis at best is disgusts me. I had a doc today on my webinar and I like this guy because he already was he's got a good bedside manner. He's a good doctor. But doctors are there to help people just like carpenters are there to help people and attorneys should be helping people. There's a lot of people doing things because they're doing it for the money and the help is secondary. It needs to be the other way around. Listen, let me explain some of the things that are going on health-wise. And maybe you're going to look at it. Don't freak out if you hear this, but here's what you're going to see. Things like your hands getting tingly, your feet swelling, you feel pressure underneath your ribs, you took a safe and effective product, and now your legs hurt every morning. if you understand why I'm saying the safe and effective product. I I don't want to say it because for some reason I just Yeah, it's a struggle for me because I should be able to tell you guys exactly what I'm saying, use the words, but it had to do with something that occurred a couple of years back that most people said, "I don't want to do it." And the people said, "Well, you'll lose your job if you don't do it." That kind of thing, right? So, you took this safe and effective safe and effective uh bull. It's not safe and effective. It never was. But now your legs hurt every morning like they're made of wet concrete. You've had doctors run all these tests and tell you you're fine, but deep down you know you're not because the problem is you could very well be a ticking time bomb. So let's just get rid of all this stuff. And this isn't to scare you. It's to give you an option so you don't have to wait until you have no more options and now you are a memory and you are in a box and some flowers are somewhere and everybody's crying. Okay. So here's here's what we're going to do. I'm going to dismantle the biology of a clot piece by piece and then explain how the body works. So you have an idea of what's going on and then give you some molecular leverage to actually do something about it and dissolve it and rebuild the damaged vascular lining because they go together and stop treating your liver and your blood vessels and your entire cardiovascular system like they're disposable parts. Like none of this is clickbait or rage bait or hype or fluff. This is just a molecular strategy to help you guys. And I think that's the thing. I had some dude the other day. He's like, "Oh, what's with this rage bait stuff, bro?" like the only one that's raging out is you, man. Maybe you just click the little unfollow button and hosta love hasta. So there's a number one is you have to look at a clot and go well why is it there in the first place? Why do I keep making them? And some people make them a lot and then there's there's another issue going on. It's not a genetic factor. And a clot is not the villain. It is a survival mechanism. If you didn't do that like hemophilia, you're going to have a whole lot of problems because there's a clotting issue, right? So, a clot is your body's way of patching up what it perceives as a threat. Like, if you look at my finger here, there's a big gash on my finger. It doesn't matter how it happened. It sucks. But it this is the result of a clot and fibbrinogen and fibbrin and thrombin and vitamin K and a whole bunch of other things that happen. But it is it had to patch it up otherwise I would still be bleeding and this is 2 days old. So, a a clot is your body's way of patching up something that it thought of as a threat. inflammation, tissue damage, or some kind of trauma damage, insult to endothelial cells, it doesn't matter. It means that the inside of your blood vessels, the endothelial lining takes damage, and your biology throws a band-aid on it. It's the easiest way to explain it. And that band-aid is made of platelets and fibbrin and this cascade of coagulation signals that basically scream, "plug the damn hole before we lose all this precious fluid that's inside." Except here's the catch. If you never fix the underlying signal, you're going to keep forming these little plugs. And those little plugs, they start to stack and they build and they turn into blockages. And now you've got problems because something like portal vein thrombosis, DVT, right? I said deep at the beginning deep vein thrombosis um pulmonary embolism stroke heart attack and if you're predisposed like your body just loves to form clots due to some kind of issue chronic inflammation autoimmune dysfunction or a postvcination spike protein interference you know I mean that's a very real thing you're not unlucky you're not being told the right information because the tool exists to solve this problem but nobody taught you how to use any of them actually it's more than one when you go to the hospital with a clot here's so you need to understand and the hierarchy of of events. When you go for a clot, you came to me and I was in the hospital. When you go there, I throw you on blood thinners, Hepin, Lovenex or friend, which is rat poison. The logic is simple. Your blood is thinner. It can't clot. Here's the problem with that. And this is outside of now I'm not in the hospital. I am not your doctor. I'm just the guy telling I'm the doctor out here telling you. But here's what what they're not going to tell you. Blood thinners don't dissolve clots. They just prevent new ones from forming. So that's like watching your basement flood and then saying, "How about you just stop using the faucet?" That doesn't even make sense. In fact, what they do is they increase bleeding risk. It's the same. And before I go any further, if you're taking omega-3 69 and you're in emergency response, law enforcement, anything like that, be careful. The reason I'm saying that is because it will keep you from forming clots. It'll allow you to bleed a lot easier. And if there is ever, god forbid, some kind of traumatic event, the last thing I would want is for you to be misinformed. So even that, how many people have told you that go on duty, don't take fish oil, right? These are simple things that just they might save your damn life. And it's not meant to be like, oh, here we go, bro. That's some bro science. No, it's actually physiology. It works in the same I mean, not just increasing cell membrane permeability, but it increases or decreases the viscosity of the blood and the ability to form a clot. So there's a lot of things you need to think of when you shove things in your pie hole under the premise that it's going to do one thing and it causes another. So I just want you guys to understand this stuff. So when you take the the Lovenex or the Hepin or whatever it is you're taking, they increase bleeding risk. So now the problem is you get an internal bleed or a nose bleed or even minor surgeries and instantly you're in a danger zone. I don't care what they tell you. They go, "No, it's not a big deal." Yes, it is. Yes, it is because you're turning off your body's ability to do something. they don't fix the root cause which is always inflammation fibbrin and over production or constant endothelial damage. So the smarter play in my opinion you help your body dissolve the clot that it's already made first and foremost by activating something called fibbrinolyis and then you rebuild the vascular lining and stop the damn inflammatory fire that's going on that keeps triggering these biological panic attacks that you're having. Because if you don't do that, it doesn't really matter because then you have to manage it. The basis for current health care right now is managing problems not creating solutions which means you still have the problem and ask look at anything you're taking. Do you have to keep taking it? If you have to keep taking it, they have not solved the problem. And if they go, well that's because there is no solution. I call [ __ ] cap. That's what I'll say. Not true. Because if you have to take something and if you stop that something comes back, the problem comes back, you never solved it in the first place. Which is why I when I hear somebody say they are taking Paxel or Prozac or I had one lady on Cypro for a decade, a decade because she had part of her small intestine removed and they said she had to be. First of all, cypro is a nasty nast like all your ligaments and tendons in your body just become weak as hell. There's so many bad things about this. Never mind destroying your microbiome and your entire system. There's a whole lot of things we could talk about, but you need to dissolve the clot that's already made. And then you need to stop the body from making new ones in the right way, not just keeping it from doing it and getting in the way, which is the difference between a drug and any kind of a peptide. A peptide's a signal that says, "Do this better." A drug says, "I don't care what you want to do. I'm going to make you do it anyway." Not going to help you. So the that's why I was saying the tools to help you solve this problem, they're not pharmaceuticals. their enzymes and peptides and growth signals and they they're compounds your body already understands because it's evolved and grown with them which means you should be doing these. So I I'm not going to waste your time. Here's here's the dream team because like I said it's I want to go inside. I want to hang out with my wife. I just had this webinar was super fun but I want to go do things. Here's a dream team of a bunch of compounds that hypothetically, cuz I have to say that will dismantle a clot, repair your vessels, and reset your blood chemistry from proth thrombotic to anti-inflammatory for the best way to explain it. So, lumbrokynise is the first one I need to talk about. This is like a like a sniper for fibbrin. This this isn't listen, this ain't your this ain't your mama's nakinise. This is legit. Lumbrokynise is an enzyme from earthworms. Yeah, I know. I just lost half of you guys. I'm out here. Go back to pharmarmacology and take all the things that are causing the problems in the first place. But lumbrokynise is an enzyme that comes from earthworms that targets fibbrin directly. It's this sticky protein that holds your clot together, right? That's what fibbrin is. It doesn't thin your blood. It doesn't decrease or it doesn't increase bleeding. It just activates something called plasmine. Plasmine dissolves the clot like Pac-Man. Well, in full cheat mode, like just It's so effective. Hypothetically, if I was running a research study and I was doing something like this, it would be 40 milligrams twice a day. And I would make sure that the mice I was doing it with didn't have any food in their stomach. You get what I'm saying? So, we've got another one. Remember I talked I just said something about natakin. So, we've got cerapeptase and nakinise. This is a this is like a cleanup crew and a building demolition crew all smashed together. Serapeptase clears something called bofilm. It's like doesn't even matter what it is. It clears bofilm. It gets rid of old scar tissue, old fibbrin, things that shouldn't be there. Think of it as this biological vacuum. And then nattokynise is it's slower than the one I just talked about previously, right? Lumbercynise, but it supports it the same process. It does a lot of the same things, right? Dissolves a clot. It's that Pac-Man. It just does it slower. That's all. You combine them for a reason, though, because your body, your biology is a giant team sport. You'll do better playing all the parts. That's why when somebody asks me about something like the Wolverine protocol and they go, "Yeah, yeah, I've been taking BPC," you're missing everything else. You're not even getting close to the benefit of that for your mouse or your kangaroo or whatever you're doing it. So you combine these two together, the cerapepase and the nattoise because one clears the space and one breaks all the chains and one gets results. So those are those three things, right? Got lumbrokinise, cerapeps and nakinise. So that's what, right? Clear it out. rate the chains, get results, smash them all together with me so far. I It's funny. I was talking about BPVC57 and that's exactly what I would put in this. This is probably the ultimate vessel repair peptide that could exist. It is it's the closest thing to magic for endothelial cells I can ever explain. This is the ultimate vascular repair contractor team, however you want to look at it. I'm trying to make sure you understand what that does. It repairs the endothelial lining, which I've talked about a ton, but endothelial lining is where where clots form. It shuts down the inflammation, especially in the portal vein in the liver. So, if we're looking at clotting in dangerous places, all of them are dangerous. That's exceptional. That is especially dangerous, right? It promotes angioenesis, the building of new blood vessels, if any of them are blocked. So, it goes, hey, there's a blockage here. Let's make some new ones to still get adequate oxygen perusion to the tissue. Right? one gram a day if I was using this for my mice. Subq belly fat TB500. I'm going right into the Wolverine protocol. But this demolishes scar tissue and lays things down in a nice neat clean way instead of keeping you all bound up. Clots don't just dissolve. They leave this mess behind. This spaghetti scar tissue, fibrosis, loss of flexibility in vessels. None of that can happen because it's designed to be elastic. You take that away and you lose the functionality of the vascular system. TB500 breaks that mess down and rebuilds all of the flexibility. It's not pseudo flexibility where you have to take it for the rest of your life. It's something where it repairs it so you have it for the rest of your life. It improves the circulation by restoring actin regulation. And if you remember actin was is what allows everything to move to the injured site. It's very important. So it restores act regulation inside the vascular wall. 5 millig every 5 days for your mouse. I I'm treading lightly here because it gets frustrating the way this works. GHKCU, this is copper, right? Copper ion. This is probably the best anti-inflammatory you can ever take. This increases, if you remember, I said vascular endothelial growth factor, the VGF. This is cranks this up massively. Supports nitric oxide, right? Vascular dilation and regenerates all of the small little vessel networks that aren't doing anything or are gone or destroyed. This is really important in the gut and the liver where all that oxygen profusion and tissue profusion is critical for function. 300 micrograms subq. All of these are subq. It's blue. It's supposed to be blue. Your mice won't notice the difference. MK677. I've talked about this before. This is not a peptide. This is a secret. When you This is for growth hormone. And I did a talk about this yesterday. Growth hormone. And it does not cause cancer. I also proved that. So if you guys go, what about the cancer? It does not cause cancer. What it did was they took a study, I'll say it again, and they gave the mice cancer. They gave them tumors and then they added growth hormone and they went, "Wow." They added IGF and growth hormone and went, "Holy [ __ ] we just grew cancer cells and then said it was MK677." No, it didn't. The study isn't even being read, right? Read the study properly. It had nothing to do. That is what it's saying is that in cancer, growth hormone causes cancer to get worse in mice that already have cancer. That's what the study says. So, make sure when you read a study, all these peer-reviewed research articles, make sure you're actually reading what it says. So, MK677, growth hormone IGF-1. When you boost growth hormone and IGF-1, you crank up tissue regeneration to levels all within natural levels, but it's natural high. You're not redlining your system, but you're getting a 10x ROI on what it's doing. Think this is where the regeneration happens. Endothelial cells, hpatosytes, and vascular smooth muscle. Don't abuse this. Too much GH and fluid retention. Fluid retention, risk for clotting. So, just keep the dosages conservative and monitor your IGF-1. This isn't hard. I would for the mice 10 to 25 milligrams. It's oral. 10 to 25 milligrams a day. Start with 10. You can't untake something. So just start that and work your way up. I think TUDCA and NAC. So this is like getting in the ring and getting in the way of the liver. Portal vein thrombosis for the most part wrecks your liver and your liver is something you cannot live without. A lot of things you cannot live without, but your liver is one of the main ones. It's right up there with your heart. You need to support bile flow, reduce er stress, and crank up glutathione. That's glutathione methylation. All there's so many things that glutathione relies on. TUDCA 500 milligrams twice a day. NAC 600 to,200 milligrams twice a day hypothetically for your mice. They're they're not sexy. In fact, they're kind of boring, but they're going to save your liver from the hell that comes post thrombosis. This is, as I'm telling you guys this, I'm just thinking all of these things work in concert for a reason. So, do them all in your mice. I'm drinking water for those of you that are listening to me and not watching this on YouTube or wherever it is you're watching. Epitoolon. Wow. This is like the massive genetic reset button. You know how to keep from forming clots. And a pitilon. That's like a genetic reset. You know how you keep forming clots? Some of you guys, you just I can't I've had people message me and go, I I'm a clot former. That's not true. It's probably more because of tieomeir shortening, right? And if you remember, every time a cell divides, it shortens a tie. It was like the aglet on the end of a shoelace. So it the reason you keep forming clots is more likely because of telmor tieamir shortening. I'm all over the place on this one. It's it's more likely to tie it's more likely to tie shortening mitochondrial dysfunction and I mean probably some age related oxidative stress. But a pillon addresses all of that. It's like flipping the switch on the aging vascular system. So it resets your genetics. So it operates younger. It heals. It works the way it's designed. 10 milligrams a day, 20 days subq. Take 10 days off. You get where I'm going with that for your mice. Now, man, I don't even know if I want to address this for the post jabbed crowd. What else do you want me to say? Maybe it includes you. I mean, I'm just addressing the elephant in the room. Yes, spike protein from mRNA based COVID vaccines has been shown. We know this already. It is everywhere on the internet but it doesn't mean it's fact but here I will make it irrefutably like I will make it irrefutable. Yes disrupts endothelial function triggers mito microcl for formation increases platelet activation reduces mitochondrial integrity. So the little furnaces that make energy. I'm not here to argue the politics. I don't care. You did what you did for the reasons that you did it or you didn't do what you did for the reasons you didn't do it. I don't care. I'm here to make sure that you're healthy. That's it. I'm here to help people whose biology changed and no one seems willing to acknowledge it. Honestly, it pisses me off. If you've developed clotting symptoms after the jab, this stack isn't [ __ ] political. It is molecular. You don't need a debate. I don't need to hear your philosophies. And and frankly, I don't care. If you get in my comments, I'm going to find a way to block you and make sure that you never exist online again. You need a strategy because somebody like me actually gives a crap and wants you to be healthy. So, let me explain why this is important. This is what this is all doing. This is the physiology behind this. Lumbrokynise, nattokynise and cerapeptase dissolve fibbrin. They do it safely, precisely and without impairing the emergency function of your body when it needs to clot. DPC57, TB500, a GHKCU, my Wolverine protocol that rebuilds all the vascule and we're talking endothelial lining, nitric oxide signaling, a micro vessel expansion, general inflammation. MK677 and epitoolon accelerate the recovery. Think 20 to 50x ROI. So, it accelerates recovery, changes and improve cellular signaling and a ton of genetic repair. Remember the telomeirs, right? And then TDUCA or TDC uh TUDCA and NAC that protects the liver and blood from all the oxidative stress and the bileasis and the hyperactivated the overactive immune system. This isn't symptom management. This is like going to war on a cellular level. And every time you do this, you're winning. So let me go through because some of you guys are like, "Oh, I should take this." This is who it's for and this is who it's not. If you are, if your mice are prone to clotting, postsurgical, post jab, and feeling off, any jab, by the way, diagnosed with DVT, PBT, or some weird unexplainable vascular inflammation, or if you're chronically inflamed, you're swollen, or your system is hyperreactive, then this hypothetical protocol is how you fix the machine. If you want a miracle without any effort, you just want to sit down and think it's going to work. This ain't for you, son. Because you still are going to need a couple of things. You need to be compliant every day. You can't miss days on this one. And as a doctor, I take that very seriously. You can't miss days. If I tell you to do something, do it every day until I tell you to stop. You need daily compliance. You need blood monitoring. So CBC, fibbrinogen, and d-dimer for sure. You need understand that none of this has to do with the FDA and is completely on your own accord and for education. And I have nothing to do with this other than I'm giving you information. As harsh as that sounds, but let me say this very clearly. You can't fix a clot by hoping or taking aspirin, an 83 aspirin every day, thinking that's going to help your liver or your kidneys. You can't fix it by ignoring the swelling and going, "It's got to be just stress." Your biology responds to inputs. Your body's going to repair if you give it the right signals. And if you understand how peptides work and all the research chemicals, never mind the secrets and the sarms and the serms, they're fixing signal issues, especially peptides. But you got to stop outsourcing your health to a system that waits until you're almost dead to fix you because then it doesn't fix you. It manages you for as long as it can scrape money out of your life. Reprogram your health. You guys take this however you want. Get mad, get upset, go, "It's boring. I don't like this guy. I really don't care. But what I tell you is the damn truth. I don't make any money from you coming out here and listening to me." Reprogram your system. Fix it. Get your health back. And then never, ever, ever let your body form that same frigin clot twice. That's how simple this is. I could go into all kinds of detail, but that's it. You're welcome. I'm going to go inside and hang out with my wife. I got to go. Never miss. [Music]
