# If I Could Only Choose 4 peptides - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

All right, we're going to hit this one hard today. Give my boy Bedro a little shout out right there. That's BK right there. Bedros Cool. Look him up. Give him a follow. If you don't know who he is, well, now you do. He's legit. I trust him completely. Listen, you know, it's interesting. I've been getting a lot of, "What about this? What about that? Well, if you could choose these, if you only had this much money, if you had to choose five, if you had to choose one for this, all of these questions. So, I'm I'm going to put it all to rest. If I had to choose four four peptides for the rest of my life and I couldn't take anything else no matter what, no matter what happens to me, the first line of defense is to think about this is to ensure that nothing happens to me, right? Because otherwise I have to get in and mitigate the problem. So if I prevent the problem that you guys don't understand like an ounce of prevention is massive. It's not just this cliche statement. It is the truth. The more you prevent I'm alive because the doctor flat out said to me had I not been covered in muscle when I went to the hospital I would have died. I couldn't have taken a hit. So that's that was unconscious to be honest unconscious prevention. I'm not talking being a a 300 lb bodybuilder. I got nothing against it but that is going on the other side of the equation. Now you have a ton of oxidative stress and you're pushing all this blood through a bunch of tissue. It becomes very difficult to do. So there's a line in between that like and I got nothing against bodybuilders before you guys get all mad and get in my comments like a bunch of toddlers. I'm just explaining the longevity equation. And so your best bet is to get in the way of my three biological failures all the time. Just get in the way. Get in the way of all those things. play. Your job is to play interference all the time and prevent those from ever getting exploited in your physiology. So in building this before people start going, "Well, those aren't really the best. I would choose this instead of this." That's fine. I'm basing this solely on getting me to 100 years in peak performance, avoiding, if not preventing every possible disease I can. Because the only way you're going to do that is by making your body inhospitable to pathology. And the way you do that is by making your body indestructible. It's not it's not rocket science, you guys. So listen, for the next 25, 30, 35 minutes, however long I'm going to be on air, I'm going to give you information that's going to cost the healthcare industry, the the medical industrial complex. I talk about it all the time. I'm going to cost them about a trillion dollars in future revenue. I'm not kidding. Really, if you follow this, you're never going to be a patient. You know that it's not normal to be a patient, right? Like, you're not supposed to run to the doctor every 3 months or 6 months. That's some [ __ ] that they told you. And that's coming from a doctor. They've gotten you so conditioned to think, well, I have to go get checked. I have to make sure I have to have them shove 8 ft of garden hose up my butt to make sure I don't have any polyps. And if you go, well, my my uncle, his life got saved because they actually found something wrong. Are you kidding? his life probably would have been fine had you actually made sure his biology was operating perfectly in the first place. It's not meant to be insulting. It's meant to explain how biology works. You are designed as this robust, resilient human being and we follow the instructions that take us down the wrong path. I'm giving you the instructions. I'm giving you the blueprint, the literal road map to go make yourself just like the immovable object and the unstoppable force all at the same time. I just I'm going to give you the the cheat codes to your own biology that they've been hiding honestly in plain sight. That is how I'm building this. So, I'm going to give you four that if I could take nothing else and I only could take some four for the rest of my life, these are the ones. And I'll even explain why. And feel free to argue all you want. You're going to be wrong. But it doesn't matter because like I said it the point is to build a a machine that is operating at such a perfect capacity that it is inhospitable to any pathology that could ever show up. Like you've been gaslit you guys really not by a person not by a person at all by an entire system. A system that profits from your ignorance. Listen they've convinced you that being sick and being old means that it is that's normal that you're supposed to be weak and sick and soft. I talked about this yesterday when I was talking about CJC and I Pamearellin. Your best years are not here. They're gone already. No matter what you 17, your best years are behind you. 41, your best years are behind you. 81, your best years are behind you. They've convinced you to think your best years are already done. No matter what age you're at, it is a brilliant business model. It's called manage freaking decline. And it is the most profitable, disgusting lie that's ever been told. I hope this costs them a trillion dollars and you hunt me all day long because the point is I'm not going to stop. I want you to have the answers. I don't do this for me. I do this for you. Think about it. High cholesterol, statin for life. High blood pressure, beta blocker for life. Pre-diabetic metformin and aching joints. Anti-inflammatories. Each symptom gets a pill. Each pill has a side effect that requires another pill. It's a pharmaceutical merrygoround. And the only one getting dizzy with the profits is them. You're just getting sicker. I'm going to stop that right frigin now. Aging and and illness is not a mystery. It is a checklist of three systemwide failures. Master these and you don't age. You don't And I'm saying within reason, right? You're not indestructible. I'm saying you don't age the way they've described. You don't get sick. You don't have pathology. You upgrade. You upgrade. I mean, failure one, I'll go through them all real quick and then I'll explain exactly what these four are. You have this forest fire inside your system. It's systematic inflammation or systemic inflammation. This isn't a swollen ankle or a carpal tunnel. This is a silent bodywide blaze. Your immune system is confused and exhausted from decades of junk food and stress and toxins and it's gone completely rogue. It's dumping gasoline, inflammatory cytoines, right? IL6, TNF alpha. I all the time I talk about these onto your tissues. And this fire burns the lining of your arteries. It torches your brain cells. Your entire nervous system is shot and it creates this playground for the thing nobody wants and everybody's afraid of cancer. This is inflammaging. This is the hallmark of every single major age related disease on the planet. That's just failure one. How about failure two? You got this locked door. You have insulin resistance. Your cells have gone completely Helen Keller. They're deaf. Don't get mad. Just understand it's a fact. Insulin, the key that unlocks the cell to let energy glucose in is knocking, but the lock is jammed with intramuscular fat, bunch of inflammation. So, your pancreas freaks out and it screams more insulin. The sugar can't get into your muscles or your liver. So, it ravages your bloodstream. Glycating proteins shredding your capillaries. This is the root of all 100% type 2 diabetes, Alzheimer's, dementia, mult multiple sclerosis. It is a famine, starvation, insulin problem. Call it what it's a an ATP. It is all of these three things to be honest. Call Alzheimer's and dementia, by the way, what they are. Type three diabetes. How about PCOS and fatty liver disease? This is metabolic insanity. And everybody just signs up for it and goes, "Where's my next pill?" and you're bombarded by pharmaceutical drugs and idiots that come out that tell you all about how their oral peptides are going to work and they know more while they're trying to attack me. How does that even make sense? I got nothing to gain. I'm just giving you the answers. The only reason anybody is ever going to attack me is because I'm decimating their profit model and I'm poking holes in their lies. How about failure three? You have a power shortage. ATP is running. You don't have any. It's running at 20%. Adenazine triphosphate which is the currency for life. Every heartbeat, every thought, every cellular repair, your blinking of your eyelids, your lungs, your diaphragm, everything you do requires one thing to fund it. ATP. But your mitochondria, the little microscopic power plants, the nuclear reactors, right? The three mile island inside of you are battered. They're inefficient. They're leaking toxic debris, which is the ROS's, the reactive oxygen species, and they're producing less energy. So, you're not tired because you're old. You're tired because you're energetically bankrupt. Your cellular economy is in a damn depression. And managed to climb says, "Here's the drug to put out one spot fire. Here's another to kick the door down, and a stimulant to mask the power outage." It's a pathetic reactive game of whack a freaking mole. That doesn't make sense to me. We're not playing that game. I'm not going to do it. So, you asked for four that actually make you into somewhat of a an indestructible human as close as we can get. This this is what it does. And this is these are the four. Period. I have dissected so much biology and physiology to put things together for you guys. This it doesn't get any better than this. You can argue, but then you don't have a a fundamental understanding of practical biochemistry and physiology. Please pay attention and just go, "This guy's trying to build robust human beings. I want to make human beings that are incredibly difficult to kill. That's what I want to do. I want everybody to be Captain America, men and women. So, I'm going right to the source, baby. I mean, it's one combination, these four. It's almost It's so disgustingly effective that it's almost unfair. Four peptides. That's it. Nothing. No drugs, nothing. No poison, nothing. Motelon, BPC7, a thymus alpha 1. Thmos alpha 1. That's it. It's not a supplement stack. It's not your morning Flintstone vitamins. This is a hostile takeover of your biology that is rapidly declining without your permission. How about we just autopsy all of these molecules? Start with a mitochondrial peptide right out of the gate. Mod C. This is one of my favorite things on the planet. We were wrong. Just so you know, we were wrong. So for 50 years, just follow me on this. For 50 years, we thought our DNA blueprint was only in the nucleus, right? We did. This is what we thought. Wrong. Absolutely wrong. Mod C is encoded in your mitochondrial DNA. It's a message directly from the engine room to the bridge. Oops, we didn't know that. When you eat, watch. M C gets released. I'll I'll trace this whole thing. When you eat, MC gets released and it marches into your muscle tissue and flips on this master switch, the AMPK pathway. This is the cell's chief. It's a CFO. It's like my wife, chief financial officer, right? Matsi tells it, "Stop being lazy. Clean house. Quit being a bee. Upgrade the insulin receptors." It doesn't force glucose into the cell like the wrecking ball drug that that like metformin or anything like that. It makes the cell beg for glucose by restoring sensitivity. It makes you so brutally insulin sensitive. I use that expression all the time because it's the truth. That you become this ins this glucose vacuum in a good way. Here, I'll show you. in a 2015 landmark study in cell metabolism. Proved it. Proved it. Mod C administration in a in highfat diet mice completely normalized insulin sensitivity and reversed obesity completely. It doesn't manage the symptoms. You know what it does? It fires the incompetent management system that's going on. That's it. It gets rid of the idiots, the lunatics that are running the asylum. And it it doesn't even just stop there. It also solves an ATP problem. AI doesn't just make cells hungry. It makes the power plants smarter. Sign me up. Let me get this straight. So it optimizes the folate cycle and purine biosynthesis right out of the gate which are the it's the fundamental biochemistry for building the machinery. It's not the ATP. It's for building the machinery inside the mitochondria. So it's the factory that builds the factory that creates the ATP. More efficient machinery equals more ATP equals less waste. This isn't a the caffeine twitch and jitters. This is foundational clean burning incredibly effective energy. You are as young as your mitochondria. Period. M C makes them adolescent. How about looking at your genetics? I'll go on to the next one. Do you look at a pitilon? It's like a mechanic for your genes. Aging is coded in your telomeres, right? Telomeirs are the the protective plastic tips on your chromosomeal shoelaces. It's the aglet, right? Every cell division, they fray. So when they get too short, the cell becomes this sinent zombie and it spews just pukes out inflammation or it dies. Tymera is the enzyme that rebuilds these tips, but its activity just nose dives after puberty. Well, for some of us, I'm 52. That's been a while. So, let me explain how it works. Pitilon is a very it's a synthetic version of the pineal peptide uh Bethalamin. It's a pot. It's such a powerful timmerase activator. Russian research published in journals like bulletin of experimental biology and medicine is a good one. It's unequivocable. The epitoilon extends telmir extends telomeres. So you're actually reversing the aging process of the cell that's on its way to becoming senic or dead. It increases the lifespan of rats by 12 to 13%. It doesn't slow the clock. It winds it backwards. It tells senison cells to stop their inflammatory temper tantrum and gets functional cells back on the damn job. This this directly attacks the inflammation and ATP shortage caused by an aging cellular workforce that's in your body. I haven't even gone to the other two yet. This is how badass this stuff is. And nobody explains this stuff. Why? I'll tell you why. Because the insta bros and their PhDs and their wannabe docs and their longevity clinics and their wellness clinics because they can't make it doing anything else because their patients look at them and go, "You're full of [ __ ] You're not helping me. You're just prescribing drugs all the time." All of those people don't understand physiology. They don't understand the mechanisms. They don't know how the body works. And then they start lying to you because they want to profit. I'm not coming out here asking for money, baby. Like I said, you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, knock yourself out. Great. I appreciate you supporting the company. It's mine. But in case you're like, "Okay, great. I own it." So that's number one. And you want to join the black card and actually understand all this stuff from a point that the same point I do, the perspective I have. Awesome. But if you don't, I'm still giving you the information cuz I want you to have this cuz nobody else is actually doing it. They're doing it with an ulterior motive, which is I want your money. I don't ask for your money. Don't give me your money. I don't care. I mean, I told a great story about my merchant services provider in my Spartan Live call today where I went, "I've had it with credit cards. They can go kiss my ass. I'm done. All credit cards can go f themselves. I will never take a credit card again in my life, ever, because I'm not giving them the control or the power over whether or not somebody can or can't buy my stuff, whether I do or I don't get the money." So, I went, "A, you mail me a bundle of cash or a wire transfer, and those are the only ways you're ever going to get into my program, ever. I will never take another credit card again. I have to go through all my links. I tried to turn them off. And of course, here's what's interesting. Just so you understand on a tangent, Easy Pay Direct and Maverick, they can and authorized.net can all kiss my ass. Never use those companies. Never use Authorized.net. Never use EasyPay Direct and never use Maverick ever. In fact, never use Paysafe and never use Lighthouse either. Ever. These are the worst, most corrupt, most conniving con companies I've ever seen in my life. Because what they'll do is they'll dangle the carrot. They'll give you a little bit of money. It's like Stripe. And then I started realizing most credit card companies are like this merchant services and they'll dangle the credit. They'll give you money until you make too much or they don't like what you're doing. And then they go, "We're going to hold all your money. We're going to make sure that you don't get it. We'll decide when you get it." So let me know if you'd be okay if someone decided when you can go into your refrigerator, when you can go into your house, when you can drive your car. Do you see where I'm going with this? So the reason I'm saying that is, you know what prevents that? Real money. Pay me in Bitcoin. Pay me in in I only take Bitcoin, by the way. You send Ethereum or XRP or anything. Nope. And if you go, well, why not? It doesn't matter. It's my business. Bitcoin. You want my address to send it to me? Ask me. Send me a message. Support Spartan Army LLC. Wire the money to me. I in fact, you know what? I don't even want to do a You can wire me or you can do Bitcoin or you can mail me a fat envelope filled with hunskies and that's about it because I am not giving my control over. But neither should you guys. Credit cards aren't there for you. They're there for the the credit card company. I don't know if you figured that out yet. Yeah. Wild, right? You need to take away the control. This isn't some conspiracy tinfoil hat thing. This is just me going, "This is how it is." So, I Here's what's wild. I went to turn off my links. I turned them all off. And you know what's weird? Easy Pay Direct will still let you pay. They'll still let you pay. They won't give me the money yet. They're holding about half a million dollars, just so you know, of mine. Because they go, "You make too much." Because they do a couple of million a month now. and they're like, "Well, we just need to know a little more about what you're doing." Helping people, solving the problems, helping them cure their diseases, their problems that they're being lied to by the medical industrial complex. I will tell you this, the second you make noise against the institution, big pharma, big insurance, big government, they're going to look to shut you down. I know because they canceled me on social media briefly. So, just and I get warnings on YouTube and I've had two dozen videos pulled off YouTube because of it because I tell the truth, which is why I'm on Rumble. You want to find find me on Rumble by the way, Dr. Trevor Bachmire. It's not complicated. And if you want the link to Rumble, go to my Instagram, click on the little Rumble highlight, and any of those videos will take you to one of the Rumble videos, and then just hit subscribe, and then you can see all of them. And I would love that. Please, like, I need your I'm asking for your help. Help me grow. Share my stuff with everybody. Give my information to everyone for free. you guys stealing my stuff, by the way, going and then pretending you're me or lying or making AI videos or using my stuff to market your peptides, dude. You look at everybody knows who I am. So, all you do is look like a muppet. So, I I don't know what to tell you other than you're kind of a scumbag and you can't come up with your own material. But hey, whatever. The rest of you guys that are help that are thanking me or coming in or using my stuff or asking me questions and I'm helping you and I'm try Listen, I try to get to everybody's questions. I really do. There's a lot of questions, so keep them coming. I'm just there's only one of me. But I also don't slow down. I give you all I got. When I said a million people over the next 12 months, I meant it. I want you guys to have the answers so badly. Which is why and I want you guys to be such robust human beings that you're literally impossible to kill until God says you're done. So, I'm just going to give you the answers. But anyway, with the credit cards, no, I'm done. Take away the control and the problem goes away. Solve the problem and leave the control. The problem is still there because they can do that any time. Think about that. If you have, I said it in my call, if you have to rely on something else to allow your problem to have a solution, then you never really gave, you don't really have a solution. Look at the people that are going to TRT clinics. They will give you dosages to last you until your last dose and then you have to go ask them for another one and hope they give it to you. Cuz if they don't, if they decide, and I've got dozens of people that hundreds of people that have messaged me saying their TRT clinic cut them off. Do you know how harmful that is to your physiology to just shut off testosterone or estrogen or progesterone or whatever? Do you know how how much that trashes your physiology to have it come back online and they don't care? Why would you give someone the control over your health like that? That's why I do this, by the way. So, epitoolon is one of the most incredible things that you can ever use in your biology. And it's proven proven. You only need to take it twice a year for 20 days. I go every four months, three times a year, 20 days right before I go to bed and that's it along with the rest of these things. But le let's get back to this show because there's there's a lot of stuff I want to cover yet. So BPC57 is what do we have? Number three. So this is the this is the best one of all things. This one's remember if somebody asked me if I could only pick one peptide, what would I do? BPC. I wouldn't even think twice. It's almost reflexive. It just spits out of my mouth. It's the ultimate fix it signal for your body. It's derived from the protective protein in your stomach. No, you cannot take it orally. No, you can't. I don't know how many times they need to say that. So stop going, if it's made in the stomach, you should be able to take it. Try it. Try it then and watch how it doesn't work. Enjoy your loss in your wallet. You're just going to spend money on nothing. Its effects are so so broad and so powerful it almost seems like something fictional. Like it's too it's snake oil. That's what it sounds like. It's too good to be true. So BPC57 is the master regulator of the VEGF system. It doesn't just promote growth. It orchestrates it in a very precise blueprinted precision. There's whenever there's damage, it signals for rapid organized angioenesis, which is the growth of new blood vessels. So, it floods the area with oxygen, nutrients, pulls all the metabolic waste away, pulls all the toxins away, gets all the stuff that's not the the metabolites, everything that's not supposed to be there. It's gets rid of it while bringing everything that's supposed to be there there even faster. It accelerates the repair of tendons, ligaments, bones, nerve tissue. But its killer app is its incredibly potent systemwide anti-inflammatory action. Remember what I said, the three biological failures, inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. It suppresses key pro-inflammatory cytoines, maybe TNF alpha, IL6. Absolutely. It's the NFCappa B pathway. It shuts that all down. It's effectively a firet truck for a bodywide forest fire. Look, if you look at the studies of Journal of Applied Physiology and a whole bunch of others to be honest, its power to heal everything from ulcers to TBI, traumatic brain injuries is it's irrefutable. I'll go back to the gravity reference. I can take this cup and I can drop it and it'll hit the floor 100% of the time. That's how effective and how guaranteed BPC57 is going to work for you. So, if it doesn't work for you, you bought bunk. You guys sending me going, "Hey, I've been on it for 3 weeks. It hasn't done anything." What you have is fake 100%. And I know you sure as hell did not get it from Elite. I know for a fact cuz we test the crap out of our stuff up, down, and sideways. It repairs the carnage left by those three failures. Remember, the whole point is to build a body where every pathology is not welcome. And so, this is the one that people are are going to be, and I'll explain it so you understand it. It's the immune system that you need to handle. MSN alpha 1 and I don't talk about this one a lot but your thymus gland which is the boot camp for tea cells fees into this useless little nub by about middle age right just this little tiny button so your immune soldiers become very poorly trained weak and kind of stupid just is you build a lot of your immune system when you're young they either miss real threats cancer viruses stuff like that or attack your own tissue autoimmunity and inflammation so now do you see how this works you need to get your immune system under control so thyus alpha 1 is a fragment of a protein produced by the thymus, hence thyosin, right? It's an immune um it's an modulator. It doesn't boost or suppress to be honest. It trains, right? So, it's not getting in your way and it's not yelling at you to do more. It's training you to become more effective. It drives the maturation and functional competence of tea cells, right? It makes them smarter and sharper and less likely to go completely batshit rogue on you. It's so effective. Just so, you know, just so you know. It's, this is why I love when people go, "What about cancer?" Listen to me. It's so effective. It's FDA approved as an adjunctive therapy for diseases like melanoma and heep B. Look it up. When is the last time you heard your doctor talk to you about that? When's the last time if you had a any kind of a cancer, your doctor went, "Thy one? I'll help you." Never. It directly fixes the root of failure number one by recalibrating the immune system away from destructive inflammation. It doesn't get any better than this. Let let me explain this because this is like the synergistic annihilation of pathology of disease because each one is very elite. It's like a specialist in its own little department but together it's this synergistic army that just comes in and m over everything. It forces fatty acid oxidation. Right? So M sees activation of AMPK is a direct command to stop storing fat and start torching incinerating fat and using it for fuel. BPC157's metabolic support is going to amplify this so you become this ruthless, relentless fat burning furnace. Never mind the liver. The liver is metabolic HQ. Listen, don't screw with your liver, man. Mod C directly reverses directly. I'll say that again. Directly reverses hypatic steattosis, fatty liver. BPC57 protects it from toxic insults and promotes regen. Even though the liver regens, it going to do it even better. Thyin alpha 1 optimizes immune surveillance in the liver because that's what your immune system is doing all the time. They detoxify and supercharge your primary metabolic organ that's keeping you alive. There's no such thing as a artificial liver. Put you on diialysis. They can replace your kidney and give you a jar. It'll make you a heart. No liver. This thing is so badass. It fortifies your entire central nervous system. BPC57 is neuroprotective by its very nature. It heals the bloodb brain barrier which is just to be very clear life or death. Life or death. Mi fuels neurons with in just clean energy so they run right. Epitoolon restores circadian rhythm and cognitive function. And it's proven. They show this in age subjects. It's proven. There's research out there everywhere that explains this. This stack is like kryptonite for brain fog and neurodeenerative disease. And yet they keep coming out with all kinds of [ __ ] like a handing out to you and go this is what you're going to take. Cardiac invincibility. How about we go down this road? It's critical. BPC57 has shown profound astronomical cardioprotective effects. TB So just let me back up a little bit. I'm talking about thyosin alpha 1 when I'm talking about TB, right? But TB500 heals the myocardium. So imagine this. Imagine just imag hypothetically the kangaroo has a cardiac arrest, a massive MI. They survive. Now there is a bunch of fibrootic dead tissue in the heart, right? And they go too bad signal like perkingi fibers, bundle of hiss, all that stuff. the essay node, all that stuff isn't going to conduct signals. Even the voltage gated calcium channels in the heart aren't going to work properly because of this dead chunk of the heart. And in walks TB500 and says what I always say, hold my beer. Let me walk. Let me show you how this is done. And it just rips through your heart and starts healing tissue left and freaking center. And then you go back to this. Let's see. Epitool BPC thymus and alpha 1. And now that you've repaired the system, you go back onto this and make sure it never goes down again. Nobody's ever going to teach you this stuff. They're not. I get throttled all over the place. Honestly, I I'll tell you this. You want my information? It's your job to share me with everybody and then send them to my Rumble. Don't [ __ ] YouTube. Pardon my language, but the hell with them. They're just the people just looked at all the big dogs are are just trying to cancel because they're being bought. You can't buy me. There is no amount of money you could give me to walk away from my family or my obligation to help mankind. None. None. And I got a pretty big imagination for money. Doesn't matter. I know what my calling is. It's to help you. MOT C ensures that it it reduces damage from heart attacks, man. BPC-157 reduces the damage. MOT C ensures that the heart muscle metabolizes fuel efficiently. And that is imagine if you use TB500 to solve the problem after the damage. And now T and now BPC57 comes up and mops it all up. So now your heart isn't sluggish. A heart that burns clean isn't inflamed. And a heart that is that burns clean isn't inflamed and it doesn't fail. That's how you have to look at this, right? Look at my atherosclerosis protocol. You have to understand this is to make sure that your system operates at peak capacity 24/7 365 asleep or awake. And before anybody goes down the cancer road and starts freaking out, let me drink some coffee and explain where we are on that. 31 minutes. What did I say? 20 25. Oh, once you pull that string on my chest, I'm like Woody. I just go except his strings on his back. So, the fear-mongering about cancer. Let me just hit this real quick. It's based on ignorance. The science proves these peptides are 100% anti-cancer. Mottzy and epitoolon. So by optimizing metabolism and reducing genomic instability, they create a hostile environment for cancer which just you know thrives on glycolytic chaos. Huh. Okay. But you're afraid of that. BPC57 its angioangenic effects are reparative and controlled. Very distinct because people are like, "Well, won't you what about the blood supply to cancer cells?" Doesn't work like that. It's very distinct from the chaotic angioenesis of tumors which is like spaghetti. No study ever has linked BPC57 to cancer. None. I'm not even like not even correlated with studies. Thyson alpha 1 clinically used to help cancer patients fight their freaking disease by boosting immune competence. Suggesting that thyus and alpha 1 can do anything remotely close to causing cancer is medically illiterate and makes you ignorant. And if you're that doctor, you're ignorant. You should take your fist, ball it up, punch yourself in the face repeatedly until you black out cuz you're hurting people. These compounds build a biology that is inherently resistant to cancer. Like this this isn't putting this together isn't some cycle. It's like writing a constitution for your biology. You don't cycle health. You build it every single day. Why do you I work out every day. I haven't missed for 4 years. There's not a day I've taken off. Like this is when people go, "You need rest, bro." No, you don't. When did gravity stop? When did the world stop? Some idiot told you you needed rest. If I do curls every single day, the same time, the same thing, the same intensity all the time, and that's all I do. Yeah, I'm probably going to cause some damage, but that's not what I do. I train the machine to be as resilient and powerful as humanly possible. So, think about that with this stuff. These are signaling molecules that restore natural function. This is a foundational protocol like like drinking water or sleeping. It's the architecture of a resilient biology. Contrast this with the model of the disgusting model of managed decline which pisses me right off. 2020 JAMA internal medicine study laid it out bare. This is real journals man. Nobody talks about this stuff. They laid this out and you could play this out you want. Polyfarm pharmacy in in elderly and they classify elderly at over 53. That's one year older than me man. Is a disaster. Polyarm pharmacy in elderly is a disaster. Drug interactions create new diseases that are treated with more drugs. Statins cause muscle wasting. Cognitive decline. Metformin causes debilitating B12 deficiency. This model is a death spiral diagnosed as care. You guys have to pay attention to your health. Stop trusting people that don't care about you, that have everything to gain when you're sick. The chronic disease industry is a multi- trillion dollar revenue machine that requires you to be a perpetual patient. A healthy person is a lost customer. This stack makes you a lost customer. Good. You know how much you'll spend with me? You'll spend six grand to join my black card. And you know what I'm going to do? because I said it's going up to 25,000. Everybody, this is not a promo. I'm just telling you this. Everybody that's joined me at 6 grand is never going to pay more than 10 grand a year to stay in the black card ever. You're never going to pay more than that. You're telling me 840 bucks a month is not worth your health? No, I don't take monthly payments. You're going to wire me six grand or you're going to wire me 10 grand if you're the next if you're coming up on year two. But the point I'm making is that isn't worth your health to get an answer. I've helped people so many times because their doctor hasn't seen them for a year and a freaking half. That angers me. That angers me so bad. And there's only one of me. How about all the people in the world? Listen, this entire setup that I'm giving you right now disrupts the paradigm. It moves the goal from managing sickness to engineering your own health. The research is published. It is absolutely irrefutable. It is everywhere. It's just difficult to find because they make it so. Did you notice? Did you see that? They the farmers almanac of 28 years, the last year they're making it is next year. You ever wonder about that? Just so you know, my parents, my dad's gone now, but my mom, I remember they used to look at the farmers all the act all the time when I was a kid. And it was right. Why do you think they're taking it away? Yeah. Let you think on that one. Listen, the only thing standing between you and this reality that I'm giving you right now, the new one where you are in control is the billion dollar marketing budget of the sickness industry. The perfect stack is the one that attacks the three failures with surgical precision. M C which is metabolic command, metabolic control, epitolon which is genetic renewal and revival of your own cells so they don't become senic or dead. BPC57 which is systemic repair. It's the systemic firefighter is the easiest way to give give it an explanation. Thyosin alpha 1 gives your immune system all its intelligence back so it's not a dopey idiot running through your system attacking itself. It's the end of it. You have to decide this is the end of accepting decline. You have within you and here and in front of you right now with me. You have the beginning of biological mastery. If you really want me to teach classes and teach you how to do all this stuff, I am game. No, it's not going to be free because there's a [ __ ] ton of my time that I keep putting into this stuff. And you know what? It takes time away from my wife and kids. And I love my wife so much and I love my kids so much. And I'm 52, so I have limited time on this planet. But I'm still here to do a job. And I know what my calling is, which means I have to give you everything I've got. So, I'm going to, but you're going to compensate me for it. And I don't think there's anything unfair about that. You understand that this entire mic drop at the end is not for effect. It's a period. It's the the end of a sentence that they've been writing for you guys your entire life. It's it's the sentence of your decline. You guys are It's heartbreaking to me because you accept it. You let them do it. You let them do the writing that you let them determine whether or not you're sick and then what you do when you're sick and then how long you stay sick. And all of those are based on profit, not your health. I'm going to tell you right now, the next sentence, I think you should just write it. How about you just say the helmet and you just pick up the pen and you start doing the writing. You ever think of that? It's the only way you solve a problem is by making sure the problem doesn't exist by taking control. When you control everything, the problem is not in anyone else's hand or the solution isn't in someone else's hands. It's in yours. Which means ultimately if it's solved, it's because of you and it can never come back until you unless you allow it to come back. Refuse to allow it to come back. That's what I'm doing. Give me the answers. Anyway, hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Never miss.
