# BPC157 Does Everything - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

All right. How about a playbook on BPC157 and the whole thing? You guys ask me for it and believe me, I do try and accommodate a lot of the questions you guys ask me. I want you guys to have the information. I want you guys to have the answers. I want you guys to have all the solutions that are going to help you build the juggernaut body so you can go out and do the things you want in life. Instead of worry about the injuries and repairing the system all the time, I want you to actually use the freaking system. You have this machine that you're born with. It is a juggernaut the day you're born. And what ends up happening is people beat it up and then doctors follow up and add insult to injury and give you treatments that don't matter, don't do anything, and actually cause further damage, creating a much more lucrative profit machine out of you than than a referral machine or a good review machine because what happens is they give you things that cause future issues that they get to treat, which makes them more revenue and turns you more into a profit machine. And that pisses me off. So, I'm just going to tell you how to do everything and then we'll go from there, right? Yes, it is a Charlie Brown mug. I got this from my mom. She sent my whole family a bunch of these. My mom's pretty cool. And she's scraping 83. And yeah, she's killing it. That's good. My mom's pretty rad. Charlie Brown, right? Think about it. We are the 27th of December. If you guys ever watched any, some of you guys might not even know what that is. The Christmas Charlie Brown special with a little tree. And it's one of those things that you think about and I realize this has nothing to do with a podcast, but the clock never stops. Like I remember when I was a kid that was a TV special and I had to wait. I got something called a TV guide. You had to look at it and go, "Okay, it's going to be on Friday at 7:00 and then you had to wait. Then you got to watch it and then if you missed it, too bad, right?" Like things have changed so much. Like now I can pick up my phone, I can go on this computer and I can watch anything I want like this. It's lost a little bit of its luster because of that because the anticipation was pretty wild. everything is instantaneous and people say it's really great but I think delay of gratification is being lost and the expectation and the entitlement is rampant and we don't know how as a society I think for the most part to handle things that normally would have just been nothing like people overreact to everything even in my comments you guys people react and get worked up and angry and bitter and aggressive and hateful and just noisy about things that just wouldn't have mattered 25 years ago, people it just wouldn't you would have just brushed it off and kept that. You wouldn't have cared. Nobody would have been hunting down something to be triggered about. They just would have moved on with their day. So maybe you guys look at older people like me and go, "Huh, maybe this guy actually knows some stuff." So I'm not just going to go over BPC. I'll give you a whole rundown of it because you asked, but I'm going to go through an entire way of using BPC as like BPC is wild, man. It doesn't just do one thing. It does all the things. You got to understand that like BPC is so next level and it's one of the things it's Riverside FM which is who I use for podcasts is it took my most used word BPC57 for the year. Remember I've been doing this since January 1st 2025. I'm coming up on an entire year of producing content on YouTube and podcasts. That's pretty rad. But that means I talk about it a lot because it's awesome. I think that's easily a forever peptide. I'll even explain it. do not take 2 milligs every day or anything like that. That's far too much. But you guys have to understand, you guys have been told, and I've said this so many times, that health is this complex thing, that disease is an inevitability to you, and that your body is this weird shrouded mystery and the only hope is surgical intervention or a bunch of chemistry that they concoct in a lab. You guys got to understand that is garbage. It's there to manage symptoms and ignore the cause. That is a very profitable story for them, but it's a lie. It hurts you. Imagine if you like I'll give you two examples right off the cuff. KPV. Okay. I woke up. I might have told the story, but I woke up one night. My gut was really bad. It felt almost like pancreatitis. Yes, I've been through pancreatitis, so I know what that feels like. It's brutal. And I got up and I took 2 millig of hypothetically for my kangaroo. Took 2 millig of BPC and 500 micrograms of KPV and 25 30 minutes later I was asleep. I woke up the next day, felt like a million dollars. So, what I'm telling you is that's a big friaking deal because people end up in the hospital for things they don't need to be in the hospital for. And the hospital is a very dangerous place. It's not there for anything other than profit. Oh, I'm sure that's going to get some sensor all pissed off and oh, it's medical misinformation. I can show you the proof. There's astronomically large amounts of research that prove that I'm right. I am right. Listen, the truth is this. Most chronic disease, the stuff that slowly trickles through and ruins your life, stems from the same three frigin things, the biological failures, the same ones that I came up with a long time ago. Not hundreds of different things. There aren't hundreds of different diseases. There are three. And those three have different symptoms, but it's the same problem. And I like I said, give me my Nobel Prize, not for anything other than I want to go down in history as everybody knowing that is the root cause of all disease. And the issue is that's probably a fantasy because it would expose, believe me, everything I'm doing here is exposing the truth. What I find interesting is I come out here to help and people still get all but hurt and it's because people are so fragile and soft that it goes against the narrative they've been indoctrinated by. Yet, they're not getting any better. What are you waiting for? Somebody to give you some magic answer? I'm giving you the answers and I do it for free. Look, go through these three three failures and then I'll go over BPC and everything else. By the way, one, the first one, you this rampant uncontrolled systemic inflammation. Your body's emergency alarm is stuck in the on position. Two, insulin resistance. Your cells are becoming deaf to the master hormone that tells them to take in fuel, right, the glucose. And three, the chronic ATP shortage. Your cellular power plants, the mitochondria, are failing and they're leaving you running on fumes. solve these three and you don't just treat disease, you prevent it, you reverse it, and you make your body inhospitable to pathology. You're designed this way. You've been taught that you're not. But that's not the truth. I know what I'm telling you. I know what I'm doing. And I'm not telling you to buy something. Like I said, what do I always say about the black card? You want to join the black card? It's $9,997 for a wire. Here's what it comes with. you get my live Q&A call I do every Monday, not the Sunday call, the Monday call, private Q&A call. I stay on for a couple hours and answer everybody's questions and solve all their problems no matter what they are. And my answers are right. You get the entire protocol library and you get the VIP community where I actually it's me. You send them you put a message in there and it's me. So not only do you get to interact with me for real like this and I give you the answers, you actually can ask me questions and you could throw everything you want at me. Labs, I don't care. I'll help you as much as I can without crossing some weird line that I'm not allowed to cross. But I literally give you everything you need cuz I and the community is filled with people that are genuine badasses who love life and want everybody else to have a badass life. I have a no [ __ ] policy. If you're an [ __ ] I won't even let you in. I don't care how much you pay me. By the way, that amount is going up to $25,000 as of January 1st. So, if you want in, you better hustle ass because I'm not looking back. It is wire transfer only. You want to get in? Here's how you do it. You ready? Write this down. apply at unlockthecard.com. It's an email. Jen, my CFO or Amber, my executive assistant, will answer that email with this response. Here's the wire information. Here's the bank we use. Here's everything you need. They'll send you the sheet. You send the wire. You in a day to 3 days, depending on when it is, cuz if it's the weekend, I can't verify the wire. And trust me, bro, it doesn't work right. I They will verify before they give you anything. That's number one. Number two is if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, my company, knock yourself out. Everything's there and it's all legit and it's all tested and everything is done in a very professional way. And the best part is that if I give it to my family, I'll give it to you. If I wouldn't give it to my family, it's never ever going into your hand. That's how tight I run this thing. You look at me and you look at how I run my life, you'll know damn well that's true. But I don't care. I still come out here. If you don't want to buy from them, that's fine. You don't want to buy from my companies, that's fine. But that's those are the only two things I ever sell. So if somebody comes up with something else, what about this? I don't do it. If you don't ask me a bunch of questions, I'm not going to answer them until you either join because if you're going to send a bunch of questions to the email, they're just going to say, "Here's how you join." Listen, I need to show you about all of this because BPC, and I talk about this so much in my group, but BPC is this naturally occurring juggernaut peptide. And it's not science fiction. It is pure biochemistry. It's physiology. The data published, by the way, in the world's leading journals everywhere. Irefutable. Irefutable. Look at this. BPC157, body protecting compound. We've talked about this plenty of times. Body protecting compound 157. 15 amino acid peptide sequence. It's this chain of building blocks that's found naturally in human gastric juices. Your stomach makes it. Now, think about that for a second. The most corrosive environment in your body, right? this vat of hydrochloric acid designed to dissolve food, chop up protein, produces a substance that protects it. It's not some foreign chemical. And if you go, well, yeah, that's logically why you can take it orally. Doesn't work like that. Doesn't work like that. You go ahead and take BPC157. For all of you guys that are going, I take it orally and it works. No, it didn't. No, it didn't. It never has. It never will. It's not possible. No matter how many ways you try and stabilize it, that's like sitting there and going, I'm gonna take a steak. I'm going to throw it into a wood sheeper and I'm going to expect a cow to be standing on the other end. It is not possible. It won't pass through the interosytes. Number one. Number two is all the proteolytic enzymes demolish it. Hydrochloric acid cleaves the hell out of it and the biochemical PHD bouncer. Your liver takes it and shreds it. That's how it's designed. That is how it's designed. You cannot take it anything other than subq. Period. You guys can argue all you want and say it worked for me. It worked for my friend. What about nasally? Watch. The only way it works, there is only one method. Sub Q. Period. Period. Everything else is bro science sales mumbo jumbing mumbo jumbo BS. That's it. But it's not something foreign. It's not a drug. That is a native signaling molecule your body already uses to heal from daily wear and tear. It's, by the way, it's primary function is cytoroction, cell protection. It's like your body's built-in repair crew. It circulates and fixes damage. But check this out. This is why I said BPC doesn't do one thing. It does all the things because its job description is far grander than just patching up the stomach lining and solving tight protein junctions and upregulating occludin and zulin. It doesn't listen it does it. Yes, it solves leaky gut. Also has to be injected. VPC works by systemically programming your body's well reprogramming your body's response to injury and stress. But it does it at this fundamental level. The key I don't I've never seen anybody explain it like this. So I'm going to try and explain it from A to Z. The key is the nitric oxide pathway. So follow me. Nitric oxide is a gassot transmitter. It's a signaling molecule but this thing has two faces. You have endothelial nitric oxide synthes called enos which produces nitric oxide that relaxes blood vessels, improves blood flow and is extremely pro. Then you have inducible nitric oxide synthes which produces massive damaging amounts of nitric oxide during inflammation which leads to all the tissue destruction. So follow me. The genius behind BPC57 is it in its selectivity. If you look at the journal of physiology 2014, it shows that it specifically promotes the activity of enos which is the good guy while at the same time suppressing the expression of the bad guy. This like jackal and hide, right? It's like this molecular white glove traffic hop, right? It's no go. It directs the healing response down the right path so you get the right results. The enos activation triggers this cascade. Watch improved blood flow. So that means right out of the gate, which is huge, it more oxygen and more nutrients delivered to the damaged tissues, all the metabolic waste and toxins stripped away from those same tissues. It upregulates growth hormone receptors, making your cells insanely responsive to your body's own repair signals. It promotes the formation of new blood vessels called angioenesis to rebuild the supply lines to those injured areas. This is all married together, which is what makes this thing so incredible. And it accelerates the expression of key genes like vegfr2 which are crucial for tissue regeneration. And this is just one thing, one thing. So in short, look at this. BPC15 takes a system that's broken, stuck in the inflammatory loop, and it reboots it. It flips the master switch from breakdown to rebuild. Look at my three biological failures because this is one of the ones you need to understand. Just connect the three biological failures. Connect the dots. Systemic inflammation. BPC157 is a very potent anti-inflammatory, but it's not like an NSAID that just blocks a single pathway, right? COX 2 inhibitors, it works upstream. So 2015 European Journal of Pharmarmacology showed that it significantly reduces pro-inflammatory cytoines like TNF alpha, which is what I talk about all the time, NFCAPPA B. So by controlling the nitric oxide system and suppressing the inflammatory cascade at its root right at its fundamental level, it calms down the entire system. That's just one of the three failures. Look at insulin resistance. You already know if you've listened to me for any amount of time, you shut down the inflammation and insulin resistance goes away. This is about signaling. Insulin resistance is driven by inflammation. So when BPC157 reduces that systemic inflammation, it removes a major blocker of insulin signaling, your cells can hear insulin again. Furthermore, improved blood flow from the ENOS activation means better delivery of glucose shuttling into the muscles. 2019 life sciences on diabetics showed BPC157 administration led to improved blood glucose levels and accelerated healing at a massive scale like orders of magnitude massive showing what restoration of metabolic function and I'm still just warming up baby look at the ATP problem ATP shortage right ATP is energy energy the currency of life that we use as human beings listening to this moving my hands everything we're doing mitochondria are the power plants inflammation and poor blood flow damage age mitochondria. So by restoring the blood flow and reducing oxidative stress, which is what this does, BPC57 creates an environment where mitochondria can function properly. 14 Journal of Physiology highlighted its ability to protect against toxins, all toxins, which work by destroying mitochondrial function. That's how toxins operate. More oxygen, less damage equals more ATP. It's that simple. We could break down the fundamentals of biochemistry if you want, but you have better things to do with your life. So, I'm trying to just give you this. The core of its power. This is the core of all of it, right? Is its ability to do this. Its ability to not it just doesn't it doesn't put a bandage on one problem. It fixes the entire underlying environment that caused all the problems in the first place. One peptide, one tiny little Listen, let's go organ by organ. How about that? You want to The research is astounding. It's The research is freaking mind-blowing. cardiovascular damage and fibrosis which is a massive problem. So after a heart attack scar tissue fibrosis forms right it weakens the heart muscle 18 study in world journal of cardiology they gave BPC 157 after a heart attack the results dramatically reduced infarct size tiny little damage right improved heart function improved ejection fraction significant reduction in fibrosis how by promoting angioenesis bringing new blood supply to the damaged area and modulating the healing process to favor regeneration instead of scarring. That's just the cardiovascular system. Look at liver problems. Liver problems are rampant by the way because of the hyperuse of medication for useless things like just about everything. The liver is your detox center. It is designed for this. 2010 Journal of Physiology and Pharmarmacology looked at liver damage induced by toxins. They gave BPC157 and they showed near complete, do you understand what I just said? Near complete resistance to the damage. The livers were protected and [clears throat] the mechanism watch. Super easy upregulation of cytorotective pathways and again control of the nitric enos the nitric oxide system and reduction of the inos right the induc inducible right so this prevents the inflammatory cell death apoptosis programmed inflammatory cell death renal problems kidney problems kidney disease all of this stuff is married together are a filtration system that is it's fragile man the glomemeuli little tufts of vasculature that they're so fragile it's a filtration systems that are very easily damaged by toxins and poor crappy blood flow. 2001, Journal of the American Society of Nephrology examined kidney failure from toxic drugs like Nenses. Huh? Naides. Some of you guys take that stuff like Skittles. BPC57 administration normalized kidney function, counteracted the fall in blood pressure, and restored renal blood flow so it functioned properly, directly protecting the delicate filtration structures from failure. Neurological problems. And this is the one that nobody wants you to know and everybody says can't be done. I disagree. Your brain and your spinal cord, listen to me, your brain and your spinal cord can heal. Proven 2019. They showed this. Frontiers in Behavioral Neuroscience showed BPC57 promotes the regeneration of severed nerves. It accelerated the recovery of motor function after spinal cord injury. Here's how it does this. It does this by protecting the neurons from death, promoting the outgrowth of axons, the nerve fibers, creating pro-healing environment in the CNS, the central nervous system, which is, by the way, notoriously bad at regenerating until now. You know what the problem with all of this is? I could do this all day, baby. I could do this all faking day. The issue is that BPC57 cannot be patented. And it is cheap as dirt. Even if you're like, I had to pay $1500 to $200 for it. Holy gez, you guys are so cheap. You'll go out and spend 150 grand on a truck that doesn't save your life. You'll buy a house that you can't afford cuz it's too much house. And you'll spend insane amounts of money on your health insurance and all of the drugs you need to take, but you won't do something that what costs a fraction of the money that'll save your life. Your brain is it makes me nuts. Okay, look at tendon, muscle, ligament damage. This is where BPC57, by the way, is studied the most. 2009 Journal of Orthopedic Research compared BPC57 to placebo in healing Achilles tendons. This is so awesome. BPC57 group showed significantly greater tensile strength to the point where the tendon actually healed and was indistinguishable from the other side. Better collagen organization, faster functional recovery. It doesn't just speed up healing, it leads to a stronger repair. It stimulates fibroblasts, which are the cells that build connective tissue. But you keep taking your aspirin. Go ahead. Lung problems. Lung Watch. Lung fibrosis. This is a personal one for me. Lung fibrosis is a death sentence. Scarring in the air sacks. Imagine things. Follow me. Imagine things. Let's say hypothetically for a kangaroo that ever had C19. Has lung damage because of it. 17. This is before C19, which you guys experienced, which was a I got to watch what I say here. I'll hold this up. Y'all might want to look at what I'm holding in my hand. You're welcome. Okay. Journal 2017 Journal of Applied Physiology Lung Fibrosis BPC157 treatment in lung fibrosis prevented are you hearing this? Prevented the development of fibrosis and reduced the inflammation and healed and reversed existing fibrosis. It protected the delicate alvolar structure, the little sacks inside there, the alvoli, and it treated and reversed chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder, pulmonary fibrosis, and C9. You keep taking your puffer though, right? Good job. And before somebody starts rambling on about cancer, you have to understand basic physiology and practical biochemistry and biology because I can just hear it. Something that promotes growth. I heard it makes cancer. I heard doesn't it's got to cause cancer if it's doing all this stuff. Of course it does. What should I do? I'm going to again and again dispel that with real research. This is the most important misconception to absolutely demolish. The answer is a resounding resounding frigin no. It doesn't it doesn't it does not cause cancer. It's not possible. In fact, just so you know, the evidence proves the opposite. BPC57 promotes orderly, controlled healing and growth guided by the body's natural regulatory systems. Cancer is pure chaos. It's this disordered, chaotic, disaster growth that evades all the systems. That's the problem. 2017 oncology reports directly tested this samper cell lines. The result, it inhibited cancer cell growth and migration. Just like that. How about that for a mic drop? Boom. It promoted apoptosis, programmed cell death in the cancerous cells. Watch, there's another study. Journal of Physiology 2007 showed that BPC57 counteracted the tumor promoting effects of all the other agents. Why would this not be part of the arsenal that everybody has in their life? Think of it this way. When it comes to cancer, this is the best way I can explain it is because I want to build my wife's beautiful dreamhouse. So, think of it this way. A construction crew building a house according to a blueprint, right? I hand the blueprint to Mchuk. And I say, "Here, listen. You got to build this beautiful home for my wife. This is important to me. I adore my wife." I do. I love my wife so much. I want to build the life and everything she ever wanted in her life, no matter what it is, cuz it's my job as a man. I realize that's off the script, but I just I adore my wife, Brandy, so much. The blueprint is good growth. Demolition derby is cancer. Okay. BPC57 empowers a construction crew. It doesn't start the engines in the derby and have everybody smashing into any everybody. It restores control, right? So that's how you have to look at this. Look at longevity. Okay. What this is probably one of the most profound aspects of BPC157. And everybody's running around looking for some fountain of youth, some springs, some next chemical, some BS that Gary Brea is trying to sell you that I think is so full of crap. If I see another peptide patch from that guy, I don't know. I just I kind of want to get in the ring with him because I just it bothers me so much because it's a baldfaced lie. This is never going to work as a peptide ever. Ever. The skin is designed to keep out. It's it just doesn't work. It makes me so angry because they are they're playing off you guys and bilking you for so much money and there's such lies which is why I won't pair with I get asked every single day for people to can you join my company? Can you come do a podcast for me? Can you every day I get dozens and dozens of requests and most of the time the answer is no. I'll go if it's valid but not a chance otherwise. I'll go speak on a stage in front of a 100,000 people if I know it's going to help somebody. But if you're trying to spin off of my credibility and my knowledge and have me endorse your product and I look at your product and I go, "That is pure horseshit. I'm never going to do it. There's no amount of money you can give me. None. I will not sell my soul for cash just because you want me to come speak at your conference because I care too much about mankind. I am here for a purpose. My purpose is to save everybody, all of mankind's health problems. That's why God left me here. That's why I'm here. Take it however you want it, but I absolutely believe in every single person that listens to this podcast. And I go, I want you to win, man. I want you to be healthy. I want you to be strong cuz I've been on a the other side of the equation laying in a bed texting my wife saying, "I'm not going to make it till the morning." And it was real. It wasn't me giving you some instab story. It was terrifying. And they rolled me out of a hospital in a wheelchair missing a lung. I care whether you like it or not. I care. Like, I love everybody enough to give you the information so you can go have this great life free from all the shackles of the nonsense they're trying to convince you you need. Look at aging, man. It is the accumulation of cellular damage, the decline of mitochondrial dysfunction, and the slow creep of systemic inflammation called inflammaging. Sound familiar? Does that entire Does that entire cascade of events sound vaguely familiar? Maybe like my three biological failures. This is why I am right, you guys. BPC57 directly counteracts the hallmarks of aging by reducing inflammation, protecting mitochondria, and enhancing blood flow to all the organs, and promoting systemic repair. It addresses the root cause of age related decline. Listen, you're not going to stop the clock. That's not the point of this. That's not what I'm saying. But at 45 years old, if you can't touch your toes or you can't sprint with your son or daughter, you have a problem. Whether you want to admit it or not, that's not normal. You have just been convinced so much that when you're 45, you should just be sitting on the couch yelling at a football game, drinking beer. That's not it. The mechanistic evidence is overwhelming for BPC57, a compound that heals the heart, the brain, the liver, the kidneys. World Journal of Cardiology, Frontiers and Behavioral Neuroscience, Journal of Physiology and Pharmarmacology. It is everywhere while protecting against the cellular insults of modern life is by definition a longevity compound. Agreed. It doesn't just add years to your life. It adds life to your years. It sounds cliche, but it is a fact. Look it. We have a naturally follow me. We have a naturally occurring peptide. Okay. Master signaling molecule that targets the three root causes of every single disease known to man. Has demonstrated reproducible efficacy in the journals that are peer-reviewed that everybody uses as evidence for everything else for healing everything from severed spinal cords to cerotic livers to failing hearts. It does this by hijacking your body's own innate healing pathways and cranking them up to astronomical levels. I know that doesn't burn you out. That's not how you're designed. And it's not a drug forcing beyond your body's capacity. That's the difference between a peptide and a drug. A drug goes, you're going to do it whether you like it or not. A peptide goes, you're going to do it to the max effort that your body's capable of. Not the same. It has a stellar BPC57 has a stellar stellar profile, safety profile, no evidence of carcinogenicity. None. Zero. Zero. In fact, it has the opposite shown in oncology reports proven. There's probably 15,000 research papers that prove that it has none. No carcinogenicity. None whatsoever. The old model, you guys, is broken. The model of one drug for one symptom for one organ is dead end. It doesn't work because you're not you're not parts. You're a system that runs like a system. Systemic repair is the answer. Understanding that the body is this inter interconnected system and to heal it, you have to address the core three failures. You know what's funny is my buddy Mark, I talk about Mark a lot. It's funny. Mark Bell's a good dude, right? But it's He said, "I got this guy yelling at me." I'm the guy yelling at him in my podcast cuz I actually care. Like this. It makes me so upset because I actually care about you guys. I really do. I want you guys to have it all, man. I want you to have all the money, the most incredible marriage, the most powerful, unbreakable mindset, the most juggernaut grizzly bear freaking health. And I'm trying to give it all. So yeah, it gets frustrating sometimes. But listen, BPC is not a magic bullet. It's a key. It's a master key to your physiology that unlocks your body's very profound, very largely untapped ability to heal itself. Everybody's looking for the fountain of youth in all the wrong places. It's not, like I said, it's not some remote spring over there. It's your own freaking physiology. The science is published, credible, peer-reviewed journals. The data is everywhere. It's not it's not the if this is possible, which is what they keep going, what if it's not FDA approved? Are you out of your mind? The FDA can take a flying F at a rolling donut. They do not have your well-being in mind. If you don't get that by now, we are not going to be friends. And I'm totally okay with that. The question you should be asking right now is, "What am I going to do with all the knowledge that this guy, this Spartan keeps giving to me?" What? Dr. Trevor, what's he giving me all this knowledge? What am I going to do with it? I've given you the blueprint to health, I don't know, hundreds and hundreds of times. Listen, you want to talk about turning the system from reboot into overdrive? Let's go a little further. Watch you. You guys aren't ready for what I'm about to drop on you. Cuz what I just showed you is the foundation. How about we build the entire skyscraper and it makes that building in Dubai look like it's tiny? Think of BPC157. What did I call it? What did I call it when I said I'm going to have the guy build my wife's house, right? The master foreman, the master contractor, right? He's got the blueprint and gets the site ready. But in order to build this whatever, house, cathedral, whatever you want to call it, you need a specialized crew. That's the stack. And you guys start throwing [ __ ] together like you're just like, I don't know. I heard it does this. You guys need to stop listening to Bro Science and Reddit and Kora and going, "This guy said it and he's jacked and that guy said it and he has a big following." None of that matters. I wouldn't care if I had one person following me. I still know what I'm talking about. I know my stuff. I know my stuff because I'm not going to tell you something that's going to harm you. I'm going to tell and I don't tell you to raise my bank account. I tell you because I want you to have the information. We're not the same. If somebody's trying to market, where have you seen me market anything? Where have you seen me just push non-stop product? Never. In fact, I never do. And for all of you guys going, you talk a lot about the products and the stuff, but you never talk about dosages. Number one, talk to your government officials about why I can't talk about dosages legally. All you muppets out there doing it, enjoy your problems in the future. But if you want all of that stuff and the real answers, I'll give you two things to help you. Black card, huh, it's not hard. Weird. All the answers seem to flow out of that machine. And number two is every single research study I have ever posted, every one of them has the precise dosage. And you guys are all like, "Oh, you never talk about anything about dosages." Go to Instagram. Type the keyword. Click the big button twice. Click the button. It'll say, "Hey, you're asking about this." Yeah. Okay. Here you go. Click the button. It'll bring up a Google form name, email, username. Put those in. If you're like, I don't want to. I've never spammed anybody once. And then the next side of that is a Google doc with exactly what you're asking. And you guys still are like, a, you never talk about it's too complicated. Then I got nothing for you. In fact, then you deserve to be sick. Here's your sign. I'm trying to help you, but I have to do it a certain way. If I don't, you're going to lose me as a resource. Enjoy that. Enjoy that because I'm out here busting my hump for all of you guys every day. Nobody is doing it like I am [clears throat] cuz I genuinely care. So, let's go through this awesome stack and then I'm going to bounce cuz I got stuff to do and I want to hang out with my family like I always do. I love being with my wife and kids. TB500. We've already talked about BBC. TB500. This peptide is all about structural repair. 2003 Journal of Investigative Dermatology showed it upregulates this actin polymerization, right? It upregulates actin, the protein that forms the cellular skeleton. It's the scaffolding for everything. It promotes cell migration so repair cells get to the damaged site faster and synergy. By the way, baby BPC57 preps the site with new blood flow and TB500 floods it with the actual construction group. I'm just getting started. Look at KPV. Oh, I'm gonna drop it all for you guys. You guys just got to listen to me if you want. I can't I can't give you dosages. So, if you're all mad about that, I don't know what to tell you. Maybe just actually follow the instructions I just gave you. KPB, it's this tiny little It's a super It's a tripeptide. It's tiny. It's a molecular fire extinguisher for inflammation. 2003 in peptides. The paper demonstrated this incredibly powerful suppression of TNF alpha and NFCappa B, which are the master switches of inflammation. Watch. While BPC 157 manages the broad nitric oxide pathway, both enos andos, right? APV is your targeted spec ops unit putting out the worst of the worst, the hottest inflammatory fires. It clears the debris so the rebuilding can actually happen unobstructed because the problem, the gatekeeper to everything in your life that is going to go well, the thing that gets in the way of that inflammation. The end. The end. If you want to complicate it, you can, but it's not. I'm right. It is always an inflammatory problem. GHKCU copper. Call this one like a plumber or an electrician, whatever you want to do. Some kind of tradesman. This copper peptide, it's a complex, right? They slap a copper ion onto it. It's a master regulator of tissue remodeling. And wo does it remodel. Look at journal of anti-aging medicine 2000 shows it modulates over 4,000 genes. It increases collagen, elastin, glycosaminoglycans. It's not just rebuilding the walls. You right, your walls. It's rewiring the nervous system. It is neuronal armor. It protects your neurons, your brain, man. It relays blood vessels, the pipes. It works synergistically with BPC because it ensures that the newly built tissue is high quality, functional and very well supplied. Tamarellin Ipamarellin boy these things they're like like project managers. These are your growth hormone secrets. You a lot of you guys know about these but most of you guys you're missing the fundamentals about them. I'm trying to give these to you so take your ego and throw it away. They don't inject GH. They signal your pituitary to produce its own in a natural pulsatile rhythm. A thousand times better because it isn't riddled with side effects. Yes, you can get slight transient water retention on tesamarl. And again, did you hear the word I said before that transient one to two weeks? If you're getting it any longer than that, you have a different problem in your system. You might want to look at that. Which is why you don't just pick up a stack of peptides and throw them at yourself, which is the problem. You guys treat them like vitamins. They're not. You need to understand that. That's the problem is all these idiot Insta bros and wannabe experts who go, "I just know everything about it cuz I have a store." That doesn't mean anything. It means that you have a store and you have some contact that's giving you stuff and it's probably bunk. By the way, Janosha is the one that tests all my stuff. What about you guys? Cuz my COA is legit with a guarantee behind it. How about yours? It's not. I guarantee it. There's no fake COAs in mine. None. 2007 journal of clinical endocrinology metabolism confirmed to Samarellan's efficacy in boosting IGF-1 levels are astronomical systemic 80%. This that's a huge number just so you know this is the systemic command growth hormone is the signal that tells every cell in your body to grow to repair to rejuvenate BP157 and the crew are working the specific job sites to samarellin and I pamel and provide the economywide boom that makes every single repair project more efficient. So look at it this way. Tamarellin fills the reservoir and ipamearellin opens the gates. That's how you have to look. It's the easiest way to look at it. Tamrielin upregulates that growth hormone so there's more of it. I pamearellin opens it up, lets it go right at night. By the way, empty at night, half hour before bed with the exception of one thing. If you're on progesterone cream, you do not take it at the same time at the end of the day because progesterone cream will blunt the effects of growth hormone analoges and secrets. But again, no instab bro is going to tell you that. It's why you got me. Which means this the only time I will ever tell somebody to take it at the beginning of the day. Take the progesterone. Progesterone is going to knock you out, make you sleepy anyway. So take the progesterone cream, rub it on whatever part you're rubbing it on to absorb it. And most of the time it's vaginal. So I'm just telling you if you're a dude taking it that's a whole other conversation. Take that at night to Samurell and I Pamelan. It's the only time you'll hear me say this. Take it in the morning. It's the And take it empty. It's the only time you'll hear me say that though. Other than that, no way. So watch. Look at this entire process. Okay. This isn't additive. These aren't like one on top of the other. It's multiplicative. I've talked about this before. It's this biochemical beautiful symphony. PC157 secures the site, the build site, and ensures blood supply. KPV shuts down all of the inflammatory fighters so every fires so everything can work. TB500 remember inflammation it's the destructive force of the universe. TB500 brings in the structural crew and all the scaffolding so it can be built properly and everything can get to where it needs to go. GHKCU ensures quality control and functionality of the new build so it's actually high quality. It works the way it's supposed to. And tamarellin and I pamearellin activates the entire corporate structure. So it maxes out the potential. You're not just healing a tendon. You guys, you are taking your physiology, your biology, and you are orchestrating a full system. You ready for this word? Youth restoring regeneration event from the cellular level up. You want to know cutting edge? It's this. It's not the latest and greatest or newest chemical they come out from Fizer. It's this. This is how you win, man. This is how you win. Anyway, listen. I hope you guys got something out of this. I got to go.
