# Melanotan 2 Masterclass (and a Huge List of Benefits) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

Man, the fundamental misunderstanding of biology by medical doctors is astounding is all I've got to say. I was going to do a different podcast, but people were asking me about this. So, Melanotan 2, this is a master class on melanotan 2. I will go line by line on exactly what it is and why it's not what you think it is, and why it does so many more things than you can imagine. This stuff is wild, but it's most people think it's a tanning peptide and a couple of people think it's a libido peptide. You're not wrong. However, it that's like saying water is for drinking. You're missing everything else that it's good for. Let's just get right into it cuz I have a bunch of things to do. So, I want to knock this out. Here's what most people think it's just melanatan 2, but that's not it. It's this synthetic analog of alpha melanocyt of alpha melanocyt stimulating hormone alpha msh for the people that actually nerd out on biology like me. But here's where it gets interesting. Alpha MSH isn't just a cosmetic peptide, right? I get asked even in my group, how much do I take for tanning? So much more that it does. And here's the thing, you can't selectively choose what it does. You guys do understand that, right? If you take an Advil or an aproxin or whatever it is you're going to take, some kind of NSAID and some kind of COX inhibitor, you don't get to choose. If you hurt your thumb, you don't get to choose that it just goes to your thumb. Now, the difference between a peptide and a drug is that a drug is like a wrecking ball. It demands that your body does this no matter what. You don't have a choice. It forces your body to do things even if your body says, "This goes against everything that I'm wired to do." A peptide can't do that. It only tells your body to do the things it's designed to do. It can't force you to do something. It makes what you do better. It makes it infinite like orders of magnitude better. So that's a very fundamental difference between the two things. So understand this melanotan is melanoten 2 is it's a regulatory neuropeptide signaling molecule and this is what changes everything. It binds to melanocorton receptors not just and listen not just MC1 receptors on your melanocytes. I'm talking four, five, three, like MC4, MC5, all of them. MC1, they're throughout your entire nervous system, your cardiovascular system, your digestive system, your immune system, metabolic tissues, like atapost tissues, it's everywhere. So if you look, when researchers at the University of Arizona 2011 began mapping melanocorton receptor distribution, they saw something pretty wild and that's these receptors. Listen, this these receptors are literally everywhere that a human biology, human being has where there's inflammation, an inflammatory problem, or a metabolic dysfunction. Just process what I said for a second. And let me explain how this works. You've got MC4 receptors on the hypothalamus controlling your appetite. Hold on, I want to drink some coffee. You've got MC3 receptors in your adapose tissue regulating your fat metabolism. You've got melanoorton receptors in endothelial cells, in your kidneys, in your immune cells, in your mocardium, in your brain's reward centers. It's not a tanning compound. These are biological systems and this is a biological operating system hack that's going to blow your mind. Here's the thing about modern medicine I think people need to understand is that modern medicine, it compartmentalizes everything. We see a dermatologist for skin, a cardiologist for the heart, neurologist for the brain, but your body doesn't get that book. It's not compartmentalized at all. It's the most ridiculous way of treating a patient, which is why my results demolish everybody else's results. And if you go, that's a little bit arrogant. No, it's not. It's egotistical because I actually care about my patients and my people. I care about my clients, which is why I get results cuz I don't treat the body as pieces. Your body isn't compartmentalized. Your body is this unified electromagnetic biochemical information system. Period. Like full stop. When you understand that melanotan 2 is hitting melanoorton receptors across multiple organ systems simultaneously, you realize that you probably been asking the wrong question the entire time. The right question isn't why does it tan skin, which is what what's my dosage for tanning? Which is makes me insane when people ask that. What's my dosage? I want to get tanned for the summer. What's my dosage? Yeah, not a good idea. Bri Bri if But the right question is what happens when you solve the melanoorton system? It is a system. It's not just a series of receptors. Because here's what all the literature and all the studies and all the research is screaming. The melanoorton system is a master regulatory of pretty much everything that we struggle with in modern disease state. Look, NIH, National Institutes for Health, 2013 discovered that melanoorton pathway is fundamentally involved in regulating so many things. Systemic inflammation through POMC neurons and central alpha MSH production, metabolic homeostasis. Just follow me on all this stuff. Through hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis regulation, I'm already two things deep and it's already changing. It's so much more than just a 10. immune function through modulation of pro-inflammatory cytoines TNF alpha IL6 IL1 beta sexual function you bet your bippy this works well through melanocorton receptors in the medial preoptic area in the PVT and I'll get to all this in a second I will explain exactly how this stuff works cardiovascular tone through endothelial melanoortin receptor signaling cognitive function through melanoortin expression in the hippocampus and the prefrontal cortex listen you're looking at a system that is supposed to be the body's inflammatory brake pedal right And modern disease is what happens when that system gets down reggulated. So just go into the actual physiology because this is where it becomes real sexy and pretty much undeniable. When you introduce melanoorton 2 into your system, it crosses the bloodb brain barrier. It's lipophilic enough to do this and it begins stimulating melanoorton receptors throughout your entire CNS central nervous system and your PNS peripheral nervous system. Here's what happens. And I'll go system by system so you actually get it. So you understand. Remember, listen. I don't care if you buy my stuff. I don't know how many times I need to say this. There's some muppet out there that just keeps saying all I'm trying to do is sell things. I've never tried to sell anybody anything. In fact, watch. You can join the Black Card membership. $9,997 by wire only. No, I don't take payments. No, I don't take credit cards. And if you're mad about that, I'm not for you. That's okay. But it's access directly to my live Q&A that I do every Monday. I had it yesterday where I do nothing but knock out solutions and answers to every single frigin health problem you've got and they all work. I have a guy that had multiple sclerosis where it's gone. Okay, you guys understand I do this because I care and I'm exceptional at it. I suck at a ton of things, but not this. This is where I am mindblowingly effective. This is why I have CEOs and celebrities and actors and actresses and athletes all calling me now because they go, "Nobody can help me, but I know you can't." Yeah, because I actually give a [ __ ] It just listen because I'm gritty and bald and I curse and I got a beard doesn't mean I don't have the intelligence to do this and the knowledge to solve your problems. I'm very good at it. That's why I'm a doctor, not some rent. And for every CSCS and NASM expert out there, listen, I love that you took the courses. We are not in the same league. When you try and make a post that says, "This is why this chiropractor doesn't understand chemistry. I've forgotten more about chemistry than and it's not to be an [ __ ] It's because the [ __ ] is the person trying to attack me going, "What I talk about, I don't know." But yet, I'm the one with the results. So, my receipts behind me are stacked a mile high. But if you want to join the black card membership, fantastic. It's a year. You get access to the VIP area. You can ask me real questions. 24 to 72 hours is my turnaround time. It's like I said, 9,997 bucks. You send an email to my exec assistant. She's a badass. Yeah. Apply unlockthecard.com. I don't know when I'm going to raise the price, but it is going to go up to 25,000. I just have been putting it off. Not for any other reason other than I just haven't done it because I'm trying to help people, but at the same time, I don't want people that are going to flood my inbox with nothing but complaints and do and not do what I tell them to do. I only have one very strict rule. Do what I tell you to do because it will work. The end. And if you want to buy from Elite Biogenics, yes, it is my company. Great. You can buy all the peptides there. My COAs aren't blunky. They're from Janoshik. Industry gold standard. Just so you know, you can't fake those. So when knuckleheads go on and go, they're fake COAs. Yeah, but you can pull them up at Janoshik. So I just I don't know even know you guys if you're buying into it. It's like the people that look at the AI versions of me selling some weird stuff on Amazon. First of all, I'm never going to do it. And second of all, if you believe for a second that was me, you're an imbecile. It's I don't even sound like that guy. So I don't know, maybe I need to quickly jump around locations all the time so AI can't clone me. But none of that really bothers me. The point is this. I'm here to give you information so you have the info to make a educated decision. I don't care what that is. I care that it's the right one to put you in a place so your life becomes better. That's all. So let me go system by system and explain how this melanotanu works. So if you look at the h because it's important if you look at the hypothalamus. So melanotanu mt2 just call it that stimulates prooplanoorton neurons. These are the primary control neurons. So when POMC neurons turn on, they release alpha MSH directly into your hypothalamic pituitary adrenal axis. And this isn't cosmetic. This is pure neuroendocrine control. So there's a paper Stanford University 2015 showed that POMC neuron activation specifically suppresses, you're going to love this, the inflammatory transcription factor, NFCappa B. You remember what this is in all peripheral tissues. NFCappa B, if you forgot, is the master switch that turns on chronic inflammation. So when you turn it off, you're literally turning off the biological cascade that causes 95% of all disease. And before you run out and start going, I need this to add to my stack cuz people are going to ask, "Hey man, I just watched this. Do I need to add this to my stack?" No, you probably don't. I'm giving you information so you have it and then we talk about this afterwards. You got to fix your biology first. This is where people screw up. They add like 50 things. I have a guy in my group right now. He sent me about 12 pages of crap. God bless this dude. But holy moly, he was like taking so much stuff. I I Your liver's on overload. It's not even going to work, right? I don't know what to tell you. I'm trying to help you, but are you sure? Are you sure? I really want to add this. You can, but then why'd you hire me? Look at your im Yes, it bugs me a little bit. Look at your immune system. MT2 stimulates melano melanoortin 3, melanoortin 4 receptors on macrofages and dendritic cells. Let me explain what this does. It shifts the immune response from TH1 TH17 that ratio which is pro-inflammatory towards the TH2 T-reg which is anti-inflammatory and regulatory. So if you look at the 2012 Journal of Immunology they showed that melanocorton stimulating directly inhibits TNF alpha IL6 IL1 beta production in activated macroofagages. These just so you know what these are. They're the exact cytoines driving systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, neurodeeneration and cardiovascular disease. So now you have something that can turn all that off. And yet right now the FDA is attacking peptides. Make it make sense. The number of deaths by a peptide precisely zero. Oh, I'm going to do a banger of a podcast on the FDA versus research use only. And for all of you guys going, "God, but you should get them at compounding pharmacy." So they're controlled by big pharma. How's that worked out so far in the past? The FDA? No thanks. Listen, you are literally biochemically rebalancing your immune system towards tolerance and away from chronic violent activation. Look at your metabolic tissues. MT2 hits MC4 receptors in the sympathetic nervous system which increases metabolic rate. But and this is very important. It does this while at the same time improving insulin signaling through EMPK activation muscle tissues. There's something else that activates AMK M C. Now imagine if you started marrying these two together and you understood biology. Don't just run and do that. Ask me first. And here's the part that most people miss. You're not just burning fat with melano2 with MT2. you're making yourself more metabolically active and sensitive for lack of a better explanation. So, here's the architecture that makes this so effective, that makes MT2 so effective. Every major chronic disease, type two diabetes, cardiovascular disease, neurodeeneration, autoimmune conditions, metabolic dysfunction, they all converge. Same three biological failure points that I came up with. Where is my Nobel Prize? I'm going to say it every time. Where is it? I damn well deserve it because I solved chronic disease. But you're never going to read about it other than something I write. Why? Because it takes money out of the pockets of the people that are slowly killing you through managed decline. So I will prove that MT2 addresses all three biological failures at the same time. Look at systemic inflammation. Your immune system exists for one purpose only. Defend against actual threats and maintain homeostasis. Your balance, your systemic balance. But the in the modern environment, processed foods, endotoxin exposure, hyperglycemia because you don't know what to eat because you don't you forgot. Human beings are the only people that creatures on earth that have forgotten how to eat. Oxidative stress, circadian disruption, all this stuff. Your immune system is in the state of chronic appropriately high activation. Your macrophagages are they're angry. Your dendritic cells are hyper stimulated. The TH1 and TH7, TH7 populations are expanded. You're living in this state of smoldering inflammation and it's killing you very slowly which is exactly what they want. Melanot 2 MT2 addresses this through melanocorton mediated suppression of pro-inflammatory cytoines. Let me explain. 2014 University of Washington published data that proved that alpha msh mediated MC4 receptor signaling specifically decreased IL6 TNF alpha and IL17 in production in human human no rat studies out of Croatia like that muppet doctor that's going around saying don't use peptides you should use pharmaceuticals are you nuts human blood monuclear cells these are understand this is the difference between health and disease And there, listen, I'm not out here going this magic supplement, this magic vial cures everything that you have. I'm saying that your body does. Your body's designed for this. You have been indoctrinated to think that you're sick because of a lack of a medication. That is absolutely incorrect. And once you understand that, you understand biology, your entire paradigm shifts and you start looking to solve failures so your biology works, not cover up symptoms so you have more biological problems. So watch, when you reduce these cytoines, you're biochemically silencing the inflammatory amplification loop that's occurring in your system. Look at the second failure, right? Insulin resistance. So here's what nobody tells you about insulin resistance. It's not actually about how much insulin you produce. It's about whether or not your cells even listen to the damn insulin signal. So insulin, look at insulin resistance happens under a couple of conditions. It happens when chronic inflammation damages IRS1 insulin receptor substrate one signaling in muscle cells. Excess fatty acid accumulation in mitochondria impairs glucose oxidation. Chronic hyperglycemia drives age. A's advanced glycation and product formation which activates rage receptors and yes they're really called that and triggers NFCappa B which you just learned is the master inflammatory control. Mito and I'm not talking about inflammosone but mitochondrial dysfunction reduces ATP production preventing the energy dependent steps of the main thing that you need which is glucose metabolism. MT2 hits all four of these mechanisms. Watch. So by suppressing systemic inflammation, it's failure one, mechanism one, you reduce the SOCS proteins that phosphorolate and inactivate IRS1. So your insulin signal gets much cleaner, much more clear by improving sympathetic tone and metabolic rate. Mechanism two, right? You increase fat oxidation and reduce muscular. Get that? Make sure you get that one. Lipid accumulation, your mitochondria start working better. But watch, I'll keep going. Let's go. Mechanism three. by improving sympathetic tone and metabolic rate. Mechanism two, let's go. Let's keep going. Mechanism three, by reducing. So look, MT2 hits all four of these mechanisms. Watch. So by suppressing systemic inflammation, mechanism one, you reduce the SOCS proteins that phosphorolate and inactivate IRS1. So your insulin signal gets cleaner and more more clear. Look at the improving sympathetic tone and your metabolic rate mechanism two. I just went over this. You increase fat oxidation and reduce intramuscular lipid accumulation. So now your mitochondria work better by reducing NFCappa B activation mechanism. Three, you reduce age formation, rage signaling, and your glucose metabolism improves. If you look, listen, research from the journal of molecular endocrinology in 2013 showed that melanoortin pathway activation increases, pay attention, increases phosphorilation in skeletal muscle. This is the cellular energy sensor that literally tells your mitochondria to produce more ATP and metabolize glucose significantly more efficiently. So you're not just there four mechanisms, right? You're not just lowering blood sugar, you guys. You're making cells fundamentally more responsive expressive to insulin at the molecular level. Look at the third biological failure, right? The ATP shortage, the mitochondrial dysfunction. You can call it whatever you want. This is the invisible pandemic that nobody on earth is talking about. I mean, and it's killing people left and center. The smart doctors are talking about it. The instab bros are never going to talk about it cuz it doesn't make them money unless they go, "This solves your mitochondria, but I can't spell mitochondria." Yes, it bugs me cuz I don't make I don't make reaction videos to people ever. I'm too busy helping people actually being a great doctor, not a insecure toddler on social media. So, look at modern life. High carb processed foods, circadian disruption, monsters, red bulls, chronic stress, oxin exposure. All of this systematically damages mitochondrial function. Your mitochondria, the little power plants in your cells. And when they're broken, here's what breaks. You ready? You want you probably stop. If you're driving right now, you want to stop and write this down. Here's what breaks when your mitochondria go tits up. Everything. There you go. You're welcome. Planotan 2 addresses this through a ton of different ways, but I will follow I I will hit a few of them just so you understand. Sympathetic activation is the first thing it does. It increases metabolic rate, upregulates mitochondrial biogenesis, PGC1 alpha activation, so you create more and healthier power plants. Reduced inflammation. So, it decreases the production of mitochondrial damaging reactive oxygen species and pro-inflammatory cytoines that do one thing very well. They downregulate mitochondrial proteins and cost you energy. Your ATP goes way down about 60%. Improves insulin signaling. So it allows for better glucose oxidation actually inside the mitochondria. Remember? So we know about the electron transport chain. We know about cardipin. We know the inter mitochondrial membrane. We know how this all works. How your body takes food and turns it into horsepower, right? With a proton gradient. So just follow me on this. Duke University 2015 showed that POMC neuron activation increases metabolic rate, excuse me, by 22%. 22%. Your energy goes up 22%. It is more than noticeable. Just so you know. It does it through sympathetic mediated increased increases in brown atapost tissue activity and mitochondrial uncoupling protein expression. So you're here's what it what that means. You're literally regenerating your own energy production system. Here's where all of this converges. Follow me. Your body has three fundamental requirements. It follows these three failures. Listen, you have to control inflammation so you're not destroying yourself. You have to maintain metabolic health so your cells are responsive and insulin sensitive. And this is the inverse, right? And you need to produce energy so your mitochondria can execute the biochemistry of life cuz ATP is the currency you need to live. MT2 addresses all three at the same time through one single mechanism. One, melanoorton receptor optimization. You suppress the watch, I'll just follow me on this. You suppress the inflammatory cascade. Your cells become insulin sensitive right off the bat, right? Your mitochondria now function better. So because of that, what do you think? When your mitochondria function better, you produce more ATP and you recover the one thing your body is constantly fighting for, which is homeostasis. This is why it seems to work very well for unrelated conditions. You're not treating symptoms. That's why if you go, "This isn't related to this, but it worked." It's not an off label thing that they come up with a drug so they can give more people the drug. This is solving the system that you have. You're fixing the underlying biological architecture, which is why you have such fantastic results. Let let me explain. Listen, let's go right into erectile libido and erectile dysfunction because a lot of people take it for this and they don't even know why. And half of the time you guys are taking it wrong. Here's what's happening. because you don't understand what's happening when you're struggling with erectile function or low libido. Men and women, it doesn't matter. The clitoris gets erect as well because the pharmaceutical industry has made this most so ridiculously complicated. But sexual arousal is fundamentally controlled by two very straightforward systems. Sympathetic nervous system which is the gas pedal. So during excitement and arousal and all that stuff, sympathetic nervous system activity increases causing norepinephrine release in the genitals. Okay. the parasympathetic system which is the breaks during rest recovery refractory period whatever you want to have all that stuff the PNS peripheral nervous system or the parasympathetic nervous system activity dominates so it causes acetylcholine release so here's what needs to occur for an erection to happen and grow up if you're going to be a cavernous smooth muscle relaxation has to occur so blood can fill the corpus cavernosis penile arterial vaso dilation needs to happen so blood can actually flow in central arousal signals from the brain need to occur so the whole system can work. And here's where it breaks for modern men all over the place. It's not a lack of seialis. Watch. Chronic stress, elevated cortisol, and norepinephrine, sympathetic dominance, elevated resting sympathetic nervous system tone. So now your penis is in fight, flight, or freeze mode all the time. And you can't relax smooth muscle. So you get no erection. It's not It's just biology, you guys. And by the way at the same time chronic inflammation because I talked about this chronic inflammation most people are in a massive inflammatory state elevated TNF alpha and IL6 and IL17 endothelial dysfunction reduced nitric oxide production N right and impaired vasoddilation so now you can't even get the system to come online add in metabolic dysfunction reduced ATP and smooth muscle cells which is required so now you can't m there's no there's no gas in the tank to maintain the relaxation so the erectile failure compounds it's just one layer on top of the other, which is why you walk around like an overcooked or overcooked piece of spaghetti. It doesn't work. Not because your It's because your biology doesn't work. Solve the biology. It's not a lack of ED medication. You don't have to go sit there and dial up whatever hims, hers, its, whatever it is. Here's what MT2 does at the molecular level. And I'll explain it from A to Z. Look at the brain. MT2 stimulates melanoorton receptors in the medial preoptic area. I talked about this. and the PBT, the parventricular nucleus, which are your brain's sexual arousal centers. So, the research from the University of Amsterdam 2007, you got to understand this stuff's been around for a long time, showed that direct melano cordon agonism in the PVN increases penile erection frequency and intensity across the board by 47%. This is not controversial. This is how your brain is wired, which is exactly why it works. MT2 it also increases dopamine and oxytocin oxytocin in the same regions which are fundamental to sexual motivation and the experience of desire. You need this stuff. Which is why you look at SSRIs and MAIS and people become they have anidonia, right? Just neutral, zero emotion, nothing, no feeling. Now, do you understand why this stuff is so important to know? I really listen. I really want you to understand your biology. So, you can do this. Look at the endothelium. MT2 suppresses systemic inflammation, reduces TNF alpha, IL 6, I 17, improves nitric oxide production in endothelial cells. I talked about this. It increases cyclic GMP and cavernous smooth muscle cells. So you can actually get an erection, relaxation, basodo dilation, blood flow, erection. It's a biological cascade along with a temporal summation to achieve orgasm which is required, right? You constantly increase until you reach the membrane potential and then you cross the threshold if you ever took human fizz. But look at the sympathetic nervous system. By suppressing systemic inflammation, which is the chronic stressor, MT2 reduces baseline norepinephrine and baseline cortisol. So now your sympathetic nervous system tone it regulates it. It becomes normal. So the fightlight freeze grip that it has the vice on your system your genitals is gone. Look at the go right to mitochondria. Remember what I said if you don't have the AT ATP to maintain the relaxation you can't maintain the erection. So by improving ATP production in smooth muscle cells MT2 ensures that you have enough energy to maintain the metabolic slate the metabolic state that smooth muscle relaxation actually requires you think relaxation doesn't take energy it actually takes a ton of energy and it here's the part this is very critical that separates MT2 from things like seialis selenaphil tadalapil the things that like the PD5 inhibitors right you're not just masking the symptom you're fixing the biology underneath that's causing the dysfunction. International Journal of Impetence Research 2009 showed that melanocorton agonism produces durable improvements in erectile function long after discontinuation which means you solved the problem. You're not bypassing it. You solved the problem. See, so you take like a selenaphil or a tadalapil. You have to take that in order to get the system to work. But if you took it once and then the system started working and got it back online, it would be a much better product. Agreed. But the problem is it doesn't make copious amounts of profit. So what if imagine if they charged $200 for the pill, but you only had to take the pill once. It is still a fraction of how much money they're making on people taking these pills every day. And I'm not talking about Seialis for things that if you have a prostate issue or the 5 milligram a day stuff, if you know about that, and if not, I need to do a a post on benign prostate hyperplasia and enlarged prostate and all the things that are happening because there's some pretty wild things that'll make it go away. and they don't involve a knife or taking something that doesn't make you work very well and jacking up your system. Listen, how about this? Let me blow your mind. How about we throw some neurology in this stuff's fun for me. So, your brain is about 60% lipids, right? Requires constant energy, ATP, and has this very limited blood supply and it's exquisitly sensitive to something called inflammation. If you remember what I talked about, this is going to come as no surprise. When you have systemic inflammation, your micro gal cells, which are the brain's little assassins, right? the immune cells. They're in the state of hyper chronic activation. They're looking for a fight and they don't care who they fight. So the activated micro ga now release TNF alpha, IL6, IL1 beta, but they do it directly onto your neural tissue. But the problem is this. These cytoines are screwing you up bad. They have a purpose. They don't have a purpose right now in this situation. So they damage synaptic connections. So long-term potentiation is totally impaired. They promote amaloid beta aggregations. So, which is foundational to this weird disease that is rampant right now called Alzheimer's, type three diabetes. But they keep blaming on a lack of what? Pharma. Come on. Reduces brain derived neurotrophic factor, which is the growth for neurons. Everybody keeps stealing my word, which is miracle growth for neurons, but I feel it. Increases neuroinflammation and oxidative stress. Listen. Meanwhile, here's the problem. Your mitochondria are underfunctioning. So, you have insufficient ATP. It always comes back to the damn mitochondria, you guys. But if you go, well, so would solving the mitochondria then solve every problem? No, because there's so much more going on. But yes, it's a very heavy start, probably 50%. You have insufficient ATP for synaptic transmission, memory consolidation, myelin maintenance, which is the wiring around that, right? The oligodendrites are creating the wire around the or the sheath around the wire so you can actually propagate the signal. Protein synthesis for about everything that happens in your body. Your neurons are insulin resistant. So glucose isn't getting properly metabolized into the ATP they need to survive. Meanot 2 hits all three. Watch anti-inflammatory product in the brain. It crosses the bloodb brain barrier suppresses suppresses micro gal activation through melanoorton receptor signaling. So journal of neuroinflammation 2012 they show that alpha msh decreased micro gal TNF alpha and IL6 production by about 70%. 70% reduction in neuroinflammation isn't giving you an erection. It's lifechanging. We're talking dementia, multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer's. You guys need to take what I do with seriously because this is for you, not for me. Look at ATP production. So, by improving mitochondrial function systemwide, MT2 ensures that the brain, yours, has sufficient energy for optimal neurotransmission and synaptic plasticity, which are required. So taking a vial full of dhexa isn't going to solve your problems magically and turn you into a telepath. You need to understand the biology underneath and solve the problems and then you don't. The whole point is if you go if somebody says you need to be on peptides for the rest of your life, they're trying to sell you peptides for the rest of your life. You're no better than the manage to climb people. Then you're just a shill. I don't care if you want to take them for there's some forever peptides that I talk about all the time. BPC157 is one of them, right? Red or true tide is another. But you don't have to. But they make you think that you have to take a beta blocker. You have to take nmena. You have to take aerosis. You have to take you have to have metformin or a humalogue pump put it. No, you don't. You need to solve the biological problem. So you need none of that. And here's the proof. You were born without it. You were born without it. You weren't born in a shortage of medication. You weren't you didn't get headaches from a lack of enses. You don't have type 2 diabetes from a lack of metformin. You have type 2 diabetes and if you're a kid because your parents are [ __ ] and they didn't maintain a good diet with you. I never look at children and think there's a bad child. I think there's idiotic imbecillic parents. It frustrates me. I don't care how upset our kids get. Brandy and I make our kids train. You know why? Because that's their life. I take this so seriously because I care. I care about your kids, your spouse just as much as mine, man. So, if you think for a second that it's just some magic peptide and you have to take them for the rest of your life, some ever insta shill some instab science pseudo expert with funky blue hair tries to tell you that you have to take this for the rest of your life and they're solving all kinds of problems. Show me the data and prove it and I will call you a liar because no, you are not. You do not need to take a peptide for the rest of your life. Not at all. You need to solve the underlying biology. And here's the problem that people struggle with. then you need to maintain it. And most people won't because you use these as a crutch, which means you're still thinking like a victim of big pharma. You're still indoctrinated thinking you have to take these. Listen, look at insulin sensitiv sensitivity. That's what it creates, right? It's solving the insulin resistance issue, the MT2, because I'm just in one of these moods today. So, by improving systemic insulin sensitivity, MT2 improves neuronal glucose uptake and metabolism. So, here's the result. Better cognition, faster processing speed. So, you got an upgrade. improve memory consolidation. You've solved the system. It's not a lack of CAX or dhexo or cerebral or whatever it else is sank or anything you want to take. It's fixing the system so the system can operate the way it's designed. Look at your cardiovascular system lives or dies based on your based on endothelium. Just so you know. Period. Period. Some cardiologist wants to argue with me. Bring it. You're still wrong. Here, I'll prove it. Your endothelium is a single layer of cells. I have no love anymore for the medical system. It's a disgusting system and most of you guys are sellouts trying to push your products and your big pharma gestapo BS. I'm out here actually above all do no harm, saving lives. And you guys are going, "How can I get you on the next drug?" One of my closest friends was told by a doctor to take a statin. And what happened? Brain fog, lazy, cognition problems, memory issues. He's the same age as me. Got in touch with me. We solved all this problem. Stripped away that. And guess what? Down 10 lbs. Shredded, powerful, sharp as [ __ ] razor all the time. Pardon my language. Why? because we solved the biology and we got him away from something that was killing him. I'm trying to help you. You guys listen. The endothelium, look at the cardiovascular system. The endothelium is a single layer of cells lining your arteries. It is responsible for producing nitric oxide, basodo dilation, anti-coagulation, anti-inflammation, controlling vascular tone, managing clotting. Like these are big deals, man. Filtering inflammatory molecules. Endothelial dysfunction happens through a couple of things. Chronic inflammation. So inflammatory molecules penetrate the endothelium. Oxidative stress reduces nitric oxide bioavailability inos and enos I went over this about a dozen times insulin resistance it's going to impair endothelial mitochondrial functionia so now you oxidize LDL particles which activate scavenger receptors on macrofagages home cell formation atherosclerosis boom you are on your way to the morg before you know it because you didn't solve the problem but they medicated you as long as they could to get as much money from you as they could do you know what's crazy if somebody ever says you charge too much for your peptides as at Elite Biogenics. What's your life worth when you are willing to pay the same thing daily? Not once or twice, daily for the rest of your life to maintain your decline while your health deteriorates and your life goes into the [ __ ] Are you out of your mind? I don't even know where to go with this. Listen, MT2 hits every single one of these dysfunctions. Suppresses inflammation, reduce TNF alpha, IL6, less endothelial penetration, less oxidative stress, improves nitric oxide bioavailability. Look, by reducing oxidative stress and improving mitochondrial function, you increase ENOS, endothelial nitric oxide synthes efficiency. It improves insulin sensitivity. So now your endothelial cells are the most functional things you've got now. And they're more responsive to insulin mediated vasoddilation the way they're designed. Reduces aogenesis. So by suppressing the inflammatory ripple, the cascade and improving lipid metabolism, you reduce foam cell formation so you don't chew up your arteries. Circulation research 2011 showed that melanoorton agonism improved endothelial function and reduced atheroscllerotic plaque formation. Why are you waiting? Listen, your cardiovascular system regenerates when inflammation decreases and mitochondrial function improves. Period. That's it. It's not complicated. Look at kidneys. Your kidneys filter blood, right? They're highly metabolically active, massive energy requirements, and very delicate. They're fragile as hell. Kidney disease happens under a couple of criteria. Glomemeular endothelial dysfunction causes meangial cell proliferation, scarring, glomemeular scarring. Chronic inflammation causes inflammatory cells to infiltrate the kidney. You get tubular atrophy. Mitochondrial dysfunction. So now you have insufficient ATP production. So now you can't tubular reabsorption can't function. Protein ura. These are things that should just be set off bells in your head you guys. Ptoyite foot processment. So this is driven by oxidative stress and inflammation. the poty there's little cells inside right MT2 fixes all of this stuff look at the endothelial repair so improved I talked about this nitric oxide production reduced inflammatory cytoine penetration glomeular endothelial regeneration it does what it's supposed to do glomeular look at reduced glomemeular inflammation so by suppressing pro-inflammatory cytoines you prevent the meangial proliferation and glomemeular scarring which is causing the problems look at the mitochondrial function so better ATP production in the renal tubules improved reabsorption of filtered glucose and amino acids meths reduce protein ura, your kidneys are actually doing their job. The American Journal of Nephology in 2014 showed that the alpha MSH, the melanoortin pathway activation reduced protein ura and improved glomemeular filtration rate in diabetic neuropathy 57%. But yet they would rather have you go to dialysis. Dialysis is a business. Dialysis is a business. I could do this with endocrine system. I could do this with anything. You want to look at neurodeenerative diseases? Look at this because this is where it gets really wild. Every neurogen every neurodeenerative disease involves a couple of things. Chronic micro gleal activation. So neuroinflammation, amalloid beta, work towel protein aggregation, mitochondrial dysfunction, neuronal energy failure, and a synaptic loss. So let me connect all these dots for you so you can actually understand the mechanism and actually look at it and go, "Holy [ __ ] this is what's going on in my grandma, my grandpa, my neighbors, my wife, my husband's life." Look at Alzheimer's begins with neuroinflammation and amaloid beta accumulation. Okay? The inflammation drives more amaloid beta production which drives more inflammation. It becomes this incredibly vicious cycle. MT2 suppresses micro gleal activation. I just talked about this reduces neuroinflammation, reduces amaloid beta induced inflammation amplification. So look at neurobiology of aging. 2013 showed that melanocorton MT2 reduced amaloid beta induced micro gal TNF alpha production. A lot of letters I know just follow me. It basically reduced the inflammatory cognitive problem that occurs in Alzheimer's. That's the easiest way to explain it. Look at Parkinson's disease. So, selective dopamineergic neuron loss and the substantia [ __ ] right? Driven by neuroinflammation and mitochondrial dysfunction. We could go right down the three biological failures. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. So, alphasylean aggregation is downstream from these problems, not the primary cause, but yet that's what they keep trying to treat. MT2 suppresses neuroinflammation that damages those dopamineergic neurons, improves mitochondrial function in the remaining neurons and reduces alpha sinuclean aggregation downstream because the upstream issue was solved. Look at MS, multiple sclerosis. I told you I have a guy right now in my group. MS gone. Not even detectable. Gone. Do you have any idea how big of a guy choked me up got me all tead when he told me that it's an autoimmune condition where the immune system attacks myelin, right? the coating around the wire driven by TH7 overactivity and insufficient T-reg activity the regulatory T- cells MT2 shifts immune response I talked about this TH1 TH7 towards TH2 T-reg so it reduces the myelin directed attack and promotes remination by the illegodendrites journal of neuroinflammation 2014 showed that melanocorton agonism increased regulatory tea cells and decreased TH and MS look at dementia look at dementia DNA. Are you kidding? Most cognitive decline is vascular or inflammation driven. Same mechanisms. Most of this stuff, right? Neuroinflammation, mitochondrial dysfunction, endothelial dysfunction. MT fixes this everything that these diseases are built on. All of them. Every single one of them. It is not a tanning peptide. It is not a peptide for libido. It is so much more than that. So, I'm telling you, if you're looking at this going, I don't know if I should look into this or not. You should. You should just think I need to spend some real time here because insulin resistance is the fundamental lever of all kinds of problems. Insulin resistance and it's rampant right now. It means your cells aren't listening, right? Deaf to insulin. When this happens, your pancreas produces more and more insulin. It's called hyperinsulinemia. You don't have a shortage of insulin. You have a you're deaf to it. Not the same. The excess insulin drives fat storage and inflammatory signaling. Boy, this sounds really terrible. It sounds like everything that people are being treated for right now, wouldn't you say? So now you be you become metabolically inflexible. You can't burn fat efficiently. This is such a plan. It's and I'm not a tin foil hatwearing guy. I'm telling you this is the plan. Your mitochondria and now I'll work harder but produce less ATP. So they become fragile. You accumulate metabolic byproducts lactate acetal COA that fuel further inflammation and your blood sugar gets beyond disregulated. Look at the cellular level. Insulin resistance happens through protein mediated phosphorilation of IRS1 caused by the inflammation. Mitochondrial lipid accumulation caused by impaired fat oxidation. Chronic endopplasmic reticulum stress caused by the ER stress caused by hypoglycemia and oxidative stress. MT2 reverses this. Watch. Look at the systemic inflammation. Reverse TNF alpha IL6. The proteins stop accumulating. IRS1 can function. Insulin signaling improves. Glute for transporters migrate to the outside of the cell and open up the doors and say, "Come on, I'm listening now. Bring it." Activates AMPK. Melanoorton signaling directly affects EMPK and muscle tissues. Look at AMPK. Increases fat oxidation so lipids don't accumulate in your mitochondria choking them off. Improves mitochondrial biogenesis so you have more healthy a larger number of mitochondria. Reduces mTor signaling so you reduce the ER stress. Improves mitochondrial function so better ATP production. Cells have glucose for their metabolism and the insulin signaling actually works. Look at diabetes 2012 showed that direct melanoortin MT2 stimulation just leave it at that improves insulin sensitivity in obesity improvements in IRS1 signaling and AMPK activation but yet people are running around thinking they need to take all these medications. You're not just lowering blood sugar you guys. You're restoring the biological capacity for your own metabolic health. MT2 is not a it's not a tanning peptide you guys. It's not even primarily a sex peptide. It's a the main control for controlling the things that separate health from disease. The three things that do it. The three biological failures, systemic inflammation, metabolic dysfunction, and energy failure. Every chronic disease, every one of them, whether cardiovascular, diabetes, Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, erectile dysfunction, kidney disease, cognitive decline, it doesn't matter what it is. Every single one of them bottlenecks through these three mechanisms. and MT2 through his very single very beautifully orchestrated pathway checks the box on all three solutions. It's just physiology biochemistry and physiology that I want to give you so you actually have it. This is what happens when you optimize and you solve the melanocorton system MC4 receptors optimize sympathetic tone. They solve metabolic rate. Your EMPK activates in your muscle tissue, making you insulin sensitive again. Dendritic cells stop overactivating the T-C cell response. The POMC neurons suppress NFCappa B and TNF alpha throughout your entire body. Macrophagages shift from pro-inflammatory M1 phenotype to anti-inflamm anti-inflammatory. Your mitochondria, you get more of them. They regenerate. So now you produce more ATP with less oxidative stress. The endothelium recovers. So now you produce more nitric oxide. Your neurons become responsive again to insulin so they can properly metabolize glucose. The micro ga cells calm down so now you can actually repair instead of attack your own brain and your hormonal system restabilizes because there's no inflammation and there's no glucose problems. You guys aren't treating a symptom. You're fixing the biological architecture of all diseases themselves. That's it. And you're using your own biology. And what's the problem is this stuff's being hidden from you left and center. You wait till I talk about the FDA versus peptides research use. I don't care what they are. You just wait till I explain how this train wreck dumpster fire plays out. What's absolutely wild is this should make everybody listening to this podcast just freak out. We've known this was possible. Like biochemistry, physiology, we've known the melanoorton system is the master regulator of inflammation, metabolism, and energy production. We've known this. None of this is new. That's what's really wild is everybody's walking around on their freaking phones going, "Oh, look. I'm a peptide expert." No, you're not. No, you're not. you are a salesperson with a the fitness degree or a CSCS or you've been a trainer at Gold's Gym or 24hour or Planet Fitness and now you claim to be an expert because you can hawk these things to your clients without any knowledge about them whatsoever and you run around telling everybody how you were a you have a master's or a PhD in biochemistry, but you don't understand how to apply it to biology. I I'm out here because I want to save mankind. Like I said, I don't give a crap if you buy from me or not. Go ahead. Don't. All my stuff is the same stuff I give my wife and kids. And if you don't know by now, I adore my wife and kids. I would never give them anything that isn't perfect. My labs create the best. I'll stand by that. The black cart, hands down, the best place. But I don't care whether you do it or not. I'm here for you. I'm not going to take my ball and go home and stomp my feet because nobody buys. I'm here because I want you to have the information. Everybody's looking at this stuff as if it's a tanning peptide, which makes me just want to flick somebody in the throat. You need to be looking at the biological levers that control whether or not your body survives or slowly dies. MT2 is what happens when you stop treating symptoms and you start treating causes. Like that you guys do get that, right? That's not just different. That's everything. That's your biology. I don't know. I got nothing left. I got to go. Never miss.
