# Retatrutide Is a Weapon Against Aging - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

Today is all about reatride as a biological weapon against aging is the longevity juggernaut. And I'm going to do a post today on on social media about Mont C and Red True Tide. And well, I should probably do both. But you know, heaven forbid I talk about that because the FD and the A can kiss my A. But listen, Red at True Tide is the more I go down this rabbit hole, the more patients I see, the more people I see. The more clients I see, the more people I help, the more I realize just what kind of a biological juggernaut this stuff really is. And I need to let me get this out of the way really quick. I people are asking me like, "How do I work with you?" I get messages from you all the time, emails, "Hey, my son has this, my father has this, my husband has this, I have this. Please help me. Please help And I I try and help as many people as I can. But the other side of this equation is I also have a life to run. And every time I help other people, it takes time away from my wife and my kids. So you I will help you, but you are going to compensate my wife and my children. And that's important. So that's what I created the black card for was a place for people to get help and to pay me for that help. Joining the black card, $9,997. You send an email to Mia, my badass personal executive assistant. It is apply@unlockthecard.com and we aren't it I you get access to my live Q&A call where I answer every possible question you can throw at me to help you and you get access to the VIP community where you can send me everything. Labs, genetic testing problems, you name it. Just send it to me and I'll look over it. And 24 to 72 hours is about my turnaround time giving you a reply and a solution. And no doctor does that except me. I will stand by my conviction on that. I'm exceptionally good at what I do and that is solving biological problems and my black card community is filled with hundreds of people that have been chasing a solution and never got one until they came to me because I care. Above all, do no harm. So, if you want to join the black card, it's by wire only. I don't take credit card. No, it's not going to be free and it's not transferable and all that other stuff that people tend to ask me. It's weird. But that's it. That's how you do it. And if you b if you join, great. If you don't, great. I still show up here. You can buy from my company, Elite Biogenics. It is the product company that I own, Randy and I, we run. And I just want you guys to have a place and a place where you can trust what you hear, what you apply, and what you get to the life that you have, the one life you have. That's it. It's all I care about. So, listen, Reddit True Tide, really, it is a biological weapon against aging, disguised as a weight loss peptide. But you need to you need to understand it is an anti-aging, anti-disease weapon. And here's where most people get this wrong. They see Red True Tide, they go, "Oh, this is awesome. It's the latest weight loss drug. Cool." Wrong. Wrong. That's like looking at the Vatican and just calling it a church. No, it's not. Let me I will break this down in basic human biology so you understand. Let me drink some coffee cuz I need it. I realize it has foam on it. I don't know why the coffee maker always puts foam on it cuz it's weird. But it's an espresso. I don't really like that thing. It's pretty rad. Always foam me coffee, but it's blacker than a witch's crutch. Do not have a birthday party in a cup. That's not healthy coffee. I need you guys to get this. Your body has something called the GLP1 receptor. It's found everywhere. Gut, brain, pancreas, heart, everywhere. It's not random. Like, you understand this is by design. And you've got GIP receptors. These are all throughout the body as well. But here's the the here's the rub. Most people don't even know GIP exists. It's like finding out you have this secret operating system in your body the entire time and all a sudden somebody taps into it because some hacker went, "Dude, I found this secret unlock code." It's like launch mode, right, for your for your 911 turbo s where you're like, well, this is so much faster. So, and then there's there's glucagon. This is the of metabolic control. So, here's what here's what redotide actually is, triagonist, triple aagonist, whatever you want to call it. Basically means one molecule activates three different receptor systems and it does it all simultaneously. GLP1, GIP, glucagon. They're all firing at the same time. And there's a reason and why this is so important. just I know I've gone over this, I need to do it again because otherwise people that have heard this and they haven't heard anything else, they have no idea what I'm talking about. So think of it like this. Your body is a building and most drugs or peptides are trying to to to solve the equation for one room. They're trying to fix one room. Oz peak, one room, GLP1 only. Great. That's good. I mean, don't get me wrong, people have had great results other than it's crap. But red at True Tide, that's electrical, plumbing, and the HVAC all at the same time. Look at 2023 in cell metabolism. They found that GIP activation wasn't just about appetite. It was literally rewiring how your cells process energy at the mitochondrial level. That's not me being dramatic. That is kick butt biochemistry. And when you activate glucagon signaling on top of that, you're not just telling your body to stop eating. It's not an appetite suppressant like like sema or tursa, right? Semaglutide or tzeptide, which are are junk. I don't care if you guys get my comments and start crying about it. It doesn't change the biology. It's still garbage. you're telling your cells to upgrade their power plants when you start incorporating glucose. And there are so many things that come in come into play here. So, this is where it gets really interesting and where most doctors will nod and just prescribe something without actually understanding what in the holy hell they're doing. And most of you doctors out there running your longevity clinics. I had somebody talk to me, just so you know, and they were using BPC and they were so blown away at how inexpensive it is for my lab versus what their longevity doctor was charging them. Hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of dollars for a single file of BPC. Scumbag if you do that. Listen, I'm okay with you making money, but don't gouge people just because you have a longevity clinic. You know what that makes you? no better than the pharmaceutical companies charging $400 for insulin when it should be five bucks. And you get people so distraught with their finances that they ration their insulin which is costing them their life. You pharmaceutical companies just remember this. Hell is hot and it's for gut produces something called incritin hormones. And when you eat your small intestine doesn't just absorb nutrients. It sends signals these chemical messengers saying hey brain incoming calories. a pancreas, we're about to have glucose all over our bloodstream. And hey, liver, buckle up, man. It's about time to go to work. GLP1 is one of those signals. It's literally your body's internal messaging system. Here's the problem. In modern humans, though, the system is trashed. It's broken. Here's why. Because you're eating food that is engineered to bypass the signaling mechanism, processed carbs, seed oils. I'm tired of people going oils aren't that bad. Shut up. They are terrible for you. Sugar. Fin sugar. These foods don't trigger the proper GLP-1 cascade. They just spike glucose which triggers insulin hyper response which crashes you into metabolic fatigue. 2022 study nature medicine showed insulin resistant individuals GLP-1 receptor sensitivity is gone. Basically gone your own signal isn't working anymore. Your body is speaking but you can't hear it because your biology is wrecked. Redatritide is like that Back to the Future where he cranks up the volume on a giant speaker. It's cranking up the volume on the on the system that's been muted. Let let me go over the physiology so you understand. So step one GLP-1 signal, right? So when reatrite binds to GLP-1 receptors in your gut, it amplifies the signal that says we're satisfied. But it's not doing this through god level, god tier willpower. It's doing this through actual neurochemical changes. It's increasing veagal tone. That's your parasympathetic nervous system signaling, hey man, we're good. We're safe. It's okay. Your brain gets the message. Not your conscious brain. your little primitive brain, the one that controls hunger and the signal is unmistakable. Then the second part, GIP signaling. This is where it gets wild. GIP, glucose dependent insulinotropic peptide discovered 1973. Man, that's how long, Listen, if you think this peptide stuff is brand new. Talk to any OG powerliffter. Talk to my buddy Travis Ortmeer. Talk to Jesse Berdick. Talk to my buddy Mark Bell. Man, Mark's a stud. Talk to these people that have been in the game for so long. They will tell you peptides have been around for as long as they've been around. Stop thinking the stuff is new and it's the latest trend and it's going to disappear because social media is gonna No, it's not. You might not hear about it very much anymore because all the soccer moms with their Insta businesses that shouldn't be selling it because they have no business doing it because they don't know anything. That the problem is or or the Insta bros who claim to be experts but aren't solving any solutions. They're just making product and spewing out biochemistry that they know nothing about. The point is this. It's been around forever. Forever. So here's the deal though. It's real function, okay? GIP, the real function wasn't really understood until pretty recently. So when you activate GIP receptors, you're not just affecting your appetite. You're affecting energy utilization or mitochondria, the powerhouses of your cell, they start working significantly more efficiently. 2023, nature showed G, that's why I said it's only been like six, three years rather. It showed that GIP activation increases something called AMK activation in muscle tissue. MPK is the ultimate control system for your metabolism outside of the thyroid. Right? When it's activated, your cells literally become better at processing energy, which means your cells aren't just burning calories. They're upgrading the power stations and the power generation systems themselves. Step three is the glucagon signaling. So, most people think that glucagon is just about raising blood sugar. Wrong. That's absolutely dead wrong. And I've heard some of the experts go, "That's what it's for." No, it's not. No, it's not. That's about 5% of what it does. Glucagon signaling at the cellular level activates what's called autophagy. That's your body's cellular cleanup mechanism. When it activates, your cells start removing damaged organels, clearing out toxic proteins and rebuilding everything so everything functions at 100, not at 90 or 80. This is where the anti-aging magic all happens, baby. This is where most people completely miss the story. They go, I just have a couple of pounds to lose. Can I get some Redat True Type? So, listen. 2021, there's a study published in aging cell. Researchers showed that glucagon signaling upregulates autophagy specifically, this is so important. I talked about this the other day, specifically in neurons and hpatocytes, brain cells and liver cells, the cells that matter absolutely the most for longevity. Okay? So, burn this into your head because I'm going to come back to this. So, real talk, the weight loss is literally just a side effect of this entire thing. And I need you to understand why. Because this is where the pharmaceutical companies don't want you looking. They don't want you looking at any of this. When your cells work more efficiently, when you have better energy utilization, what happens? You don't need as much fuel. Simply, it's basic thermodynamics. You're literally, your body literally has to consume fewer calories to maintain the same level of energy output because you're not wasting energy anymore like a muppet. Here's what's actually happening underneath the skin. You're solving the three biological failures of all disease that Dr. T came up with. Every single disease that you can name, look, Alzheimer's, heart disease, diabetes, cancer, auto autoimmune diseases, you name it, it doesn't make a difference. They all boil down to three biological failures. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, mitochondrial dysfunction, the ATP shortage. And a true tide doesn't just address all three of these. It obliterates them all at the same time. Holy crap. Look 2023 meta analysis in the Lancet showed these that reatride reduces systemic inflammatory markers by 47% in 12 weeks. That's 3 months folks. C reactive protein down, IL6, interlucan 6 down, TNF alpha down. Your immune system goes from throwing punches at random things to actually having a target again the way it's designed as surveillance gets back online. What do you think that's going to do for things like cancer or autoimmune dysfunction? That's an old story though. How about something new? When you activate this, when you when you crank reatride, you're specifically reducing what's called lipopolyac lipos polysaccharide LPS transllocation from your gut. Remember, it's your gut is that one cell barrier with mucus that keeps your the LPS is from spilling into your nice clean closed circuit vascular system. LPS is basically garbage from your intestinal bacteria that should not ever be in your bloodstream ever. Ever. When your gut barrier is compromised, which is in most modern humans now, LPS leaks into your blood and triggers this constant neverending state of inflammation. 2022 in gut showed retatride signaling the the three the triple agonist signaling strengthens the intestinal tight junctions literally tightening the barrier between your gut bacteria and your bloodstream. It's not just losing weight, you guys. It's not you're sealing off the constant source of inflammatory toxins which if you remember 95% of most diseases caused by low-grade systemic inflammation and it's not an Advil problem. That's when you when people go I take an aspirin every day. Aspirin destroys you. Don't even get me started on that. You guys doing that every day thinking that's what you need to do. You're out of your ever loving mind. And look at the insulin resistance. That's the glucagon piece of this of redatruide which is why semiglucide tepide can't even come close to this. And stop defending it because you're mad because that's the only one you can get. that's the only one you can sell. It's the only one that's that you get from some overseas company, whatever the hell the reason is, or that you're just mad because somebody's going against you. You guys have to grow up and wake up. I'm out here because I give a crap. Listen, I'm the only doctor out here that cares at a binary level. I don't This is This is free. You guys do realize this, right? Like, I come out here for free because I care about you. So, when glucagon signaling is properly activated, your liver stops overproducing glucose during fasting states. Your pancreas stops working overtime to produce insulin. Oh, this is wild. Your cells become more responsive to insulin again because they're not hyper stimulated. 2023 diabetes care showed that reatride reduced HBA1C, which measures average blood sugar over 3 months, by an average of 2.1 percentage points. That's not small. That's people moving from diabetic to non-diabetic range. Get that in your head. That's how wild this is. So look at here's something that's going to sound crazy but it makes perfect sense once you understand cellular biology. You know what's funny is I took cell biology in a summer class at at the at in college in university at the university because I'm so sophisticated now I say it because I didn't go to school there we called them universities colleges. Anyway, I took it in a summer class, not an inter session class, a summer class. And the class was, I believe, four weeks long. And I remember I came, I sat down two, it was a two-hour class, and had a lab three times a week, I believe. I know micro, my lab was every day. And organic chemistry, my my lab was every day. Organic chemistry was a nut punch of a class. It was probably one of the hardest classes I've ever taken. And if you get my comments go, I found it so easy. Listen, I heard people that took organic chemistry, just to go on the tangent for a second, and they took it in a four-week class, just a regular class, and they were like, "It was so easy." I go, "No, it wasn't. Then you didn't take organic chemistry." It had the highest failure rate in my university. It was that brutal. And that the professor was a stud, man. He was so smart. You guys think I'm intelligent? This guy made me look dumb. He was awesome. And he also told he also taught human fist. Same prof. That's how wicked intelligent he was. But cell biology, the point was I I sat there in class and when I was done, he goes, "Okay, awesome. I'll see you tomorrow." I show up tomorrow and he that throws a paper piece of paper down in front of everybody in the class and I think it was the Baxter building where I was the Baxter building Kennedy Hall. I don't remember the name of the building, the Baxter building. Yeah, apparently I was with the Fantastic 4, too. But I think it was Kennedy Hall. No, Frank Kennedy was Fizzad. I don't remember the name of the building. Anyway, everybody names buildings in university. It's really irrelevant. But the point is I I looked at it and I it was my first summer session class and he goes, "All right, there's your first test." We had a test every single day. I couldn't process that at the beginning and I realized, holy gez, by the time I was through the first week, we'd obliterated so much information. You think that is about 3 weeks worth of coursework normally. It showed me what I could get done in a short when it gets complicated is when you start layering summer courses just to get out quicker inter session summer courses. So understand this, most human disease is fundamentally a disease of inflammation and then the the inflammation causes the problem which is ATP shortage. So ATP, adenazine, triphosphates, your cellular currency. If you haven't heard this before, I'm here to help you, right? Every single function in your body, everyone, everything, me moving my hands, blinking, breathing, my cells regenerating right now, my gut lining, my liver, everything going on right now, my brain, the neuro, the norepinephrine, epinephrine, the serotonin, dopamine, everything that's going on, the synaptogenesis, all the stuff that's going on in my body is based on one currency, ATP, and it requires ATP. Thinking, fighting, infection, everything, it all living requires adenazine triphosphate. Okay? So your mitochondria produce ATP. It is their only job. And they are terrible at it in modern humans. Terrible. Yeah, you weren't expecting that. They suck. You're constantly in fight, flight, or freeze mode. Stress, cortisol, mitochondrial suppression, right? Your mitochondria are damaged from oxidative stress. You're not providing the right substrates for ATP production. And your cells have downregulated metabolic flexibility. They forgot how to use any different fuel sources. So you end up being screwed and you're running at an ATP deficit. The actual problem, not calories. That's what this is. It is ATP shortage. So when reatride activates all three receptors, this is what happens at the mitochondria level. So you might want to take notes on this. Your cells increase something called mitochondrial biogenesis. That means they're making new mitochondria. More power plants, more ATP production. 2023 cell reports demonstrated that reatride increases PGC1 alpha expression which is the control the ultimate control of mitochondrial production. They measured ATP production and showed proved that it increased 34% in metabolically active tissue. Just but wait I feel like a a Shamwow commercial, right? But wait, there's more. Your cells also increase something called mitochondrial efficiency ratio. Just stay with me. I'll put a bow on this in a second. It means that the ATP produced per oxygen consumed goes up. So now you're not just making more powerhouses, you're making better powerhouses. The glucagon component specifically, by the way, activates cert one and C 3. These are NAD dependent proteins that literally repair mitochondrial DNA and proteins. Just think about that. Your cells aren't just producing more energy. They're upgrading their energy infrastructure. Listen, I live in Texas. I love Texas. I grew I spent 20 plus years in California living there, too. It's where I met my incredible wife. And I'll tell you, the infrastructure in California demolishes the train wreck infrastructure here in Texas. I'll take Texas all day, by the way. I love Texas, but the infrastructure here sucks. It's a disaster. They literally like you go to Dallas and it just looks like somebody threw ropes in the air and wherever they landed was like, "Let's make roads here." That's how it looks. But think about how much this means when you're upgrading the infrastructure to California loans, right? When you have adequate ATP, everything changes. Suddenly your immune system has the energy to fight pathogens instead of just creating this chaotic chronic inflammation. Your brain has the energy for neuroplasticity instead of accumulating towel and amaloid plaques. Your liver has the energy for detox instead of accumulating fat. It's not weight loss. This is cellular regeneration. It's cellular upgrade. Resurrection is what it is. So listen, let let me tell you something that's going to make you reconsider everything that you think you know about neurological disease that everybody on social media keeps apparently talking about how they're an expert at this. If you haven't solved it, you're not an expert. It's that simple. Listen, I have friends of mine, okay? I have a good friend of mine, Justin Wetzel, guy's like 6'5, covered in tattoos. He's a stud. I love the guy to death. He is probably one of the most genuine human beings I've ever met. And you know what? He is almost obnoxiously successful. He has every right to teach you how to run a business. He is insanely successful. I have another really good friend of mine, Howard Payne. Multi multi-billionaire. He has every right to tell you how to run a business because he knows what he's doing. One of my closest friends who I love very dearly, Bedros Cool. He is I usually have his mug with me. But this guy's a stud. I've learned more from this guy and I've paid him. He's worth every dime. You should throw money at this guy all day if you want to grow a business. He is an empire maker. He's just got a connection with God that gets you to He's so good at building businesses. He will give you such a simple answer. He doesn't put up with any [ __ ] and he's an old soul. So, just understand he knows what he's talking about. I trust him. I My wife trusts him. My kids trust him. This is how it works. But he has every right to tell you how to build a business because he knows what he's doing. I could do this with a ton of people, right? My buddy Brad Lee, he's a stud. Knows how to interact with me. That guy's a crazy salesman and he's a good dude. If you don't like him, we're not going to get along, right? I could do this with so many people. So, just keep that in mind. Okay? This is important stuff. The reason I'm saying this is these people coming out and giving you information on how to solve a problem might have never solved the problem themselves. So, I'm sorry, but I'm not going to listen to you if you haven't solved the problem. I don't care how many degrees you have behind your belt. I don't care. Look at Just look at this. Everything you think you know about neurological problems, okay? Alzheimer's, dementia, multiple sclerosis, Parkinson's. These aren't these genetic death sentences that the doctors keep telling you they are. They're ATP diseases. They're mitochondrial problems. Your brain is 2% I say this all the time, 2% of your body weight, but consumes 20% of your ATP. It's the most metabolically expensive organ you've got. It is based on cholesterol solely. It's a big fat ball in your head. Weighs about 2 lbs. And when you don't have enough energy, it gets weird. That's literally what you may as well just It gets weird. When neurons can't produce enough ATP, they can't maintain their sodium potassium pumps. These pumps are what create the My It'schy. You're wondering why I'm scratching. It's my You can see it. It's there. It's right there. That's my nicotine patch. They probably sensor that. Anyway, those pumps are what create the right I was talking about the sodium potassium pumps, right? So, yeah, the bring myself back in. Come on. Come on. Right. The electrochemical gradient that allows neurons to fire. When they fail, you get neurodeeneration. Your brain also produces proteins amaloid beta towel, alpha sinuclean as normal. Listen to me. They're normal byproducts. Usually, your cells clean those up through autophagy. remember that cellular cleanup system but autophagy requires something ATP lots of it lots of it when you don't have energy those proteins accumulate amaloid plaques form towangles form that's Alzheimer's that's dementia to be honest too so type three diabetes which is why looking at cerebral cax dhexa all these things they can't solve they can't reverse when I see people making posts going dhexa reverses Alzheimer's it can't it can repair the brain but it it's still not addressing the underlying problem. You need more pieces to the puzzle, which is why people ask me for help. Listen, dementia, multiple sclerosis, type two diabetes so many times. I It's beyond what I can count. I'm I'm doing these are the things I've solved like on a daily basis. You have to understand I do this cuz I care and because it's the one damn thing I suck at a lot of things, you guys. I have full transparency. I suck at a lot of things, but I'm exceptional at human biology and biochemistry and taking care of what what's going on in your body and solving the problem. That's what I've got. That's what God left me. And that's what he put inside me. And it's my obligation to give that all to you. I doctor does not mean big shot jackass arrogant, you know, jerk in a in a white coat in a god complex. It means teacher. Just trying to teach you, man. Just trying to teach. So here's what changes when you're accumulating all these problems, right? The amaloid, the towel, all that stuff. This is here's what happens with rea, right? Reat true. 2023 nature neuroscience showed that redat true tide increases autophagy specifically in hypocample neurons these are the neurons that are responsible for your memory so they showed cognitive decline gave them gave people read a true tide and measured amaloid beta accumulation listen 37% decrease just run that number through your head 37%. by itself. Well, that's pretty damn interesting. But here's what what blew the researchers. They measured cognitive performance. The memory improved. Didn't stabilize. It improved. 24 ons Hopkins literally just came out like last year or two years ago, I guess, just early 2026 right now. If you listen to this, you don't know what the date is, February 7th, showed that retatride signaling, specifically glucagon, activates BDNF, brain dried neurotrophic factor. This is the growth hormone essentially for neurons. I call it miracle grow. People keep stealing my word. That's fine. I don't care. This tells your brain to literally build new neural connections in MS, multiple sclerosis. Okay. I I am a huge Michael J. Fox. You I think he's his one of my favorite movies. Secret of my success. If you don't know it and you don't like it, I don't care. I think it's awesome. Back to Future movies make me laugh all the time. Your immune system in MS, which is what he has. That's why put me in front of Michael J. Fox, man. I'll do everything I can to help him. And I keep trying to say this about these celebrities that have problems. And it doesn't have to be a celebrity, but I'm saying these people that are given these hopeless public acknowledgements of disease and then not having anything done like Bruce Willis, it breaks my heart. It chokes me up. It brings me to tears because I I know 100%. Even at this point, this this stage of the game, the doctors are selfish. If you're listening to this and you're one of those doctors, you're selfish. Your ego is too fragile. Your first priority should be Bruce. I'd give him all I got. And and I I talked to his best friend and we were working things out. It just you can reverse this stuff, man. You're just indoctrinated to think you can't listen. Your immune system in MS is attacking the myelin sheath. The illegody aren't even functioning right. That's the it's the insulation around the myelin is the insulation, not the sites. Those are what produce the milein. This is an autoimmune condition meaning your immune system has it has its signals crossed, right? But your body isn't designed to kill itself and attack itself. God didn't build you that. Even Dr. Artist talks about that and I have a lot [clears throat] of respect for artist. But when that happens, that means there's a signaling problem. There's three biological failures. So here's what reatrite does. It shifts your immune system from TH1 dominant which is attacking itself right to TH2 dominant response which is fighting pathogens outside. How? Something actually very very profound. 2022 study in immunity showed reatride specifically increases IL10 production in regulatory tea cells. IL10 listen is the anti-inflammatory cytoine. It's your immune system. This is wicked stuff man. It's your immune system's peace signal. So when you activate it, you're telling your immune system, right, when reatride comes into the picture, you're telling your immune system to stand down from attacking your own damn tissue. And when you pair that with the mitochondrial ATP boost and the autophagy activation, your neurons start healing and oligodendrites can actually beat the tear down. So they're building faster than it's being torn down and the myelin starts regrowing. Listen, this is important. It's addressing the fundamental biology that creates these conditions in the first place. Look at visceral fat, liver damage, and the hippatic clock. Okay, this is some of you guys might not even know what that is. That's fine. So, let me explain something that most cardiologists don't even understand. Visceral fat, the fat around your organs, isn't just stored energy. It's an endocrine organ. It produces cytoines, inflammatory signals. It literally tells your body manufacturing it's manufacturing disease 24/7. That's what it's right. So, this is how it it's it's saying destroy the system. Destroy the system. Right? So even worse is visceral fat triggers something cause called hippatic steattosis. It's fatty liver disease and fatty liver is where everything goes to die. I lost my dad to liver disease. Okay? It's a big deal to me. I take it personally because it's a sore spot for me because I miss my dad every day. Your liver is the ultimate detox system. It's the the control system. It's it's the detox organ of your body. Period. No liver, no life. When it's fatty, it can't detoxify. When it can't detoxify, toxins accumulate. Inflammation goes through the roof and mitochondria become completely dysfunctional. And here's where it gets really wild. The fat that retatrutide eliminates preferentially is visceral. But nobody told you that, did they? Not subcutaneous. It's the that the fat under your skin that keeps you warm and protects you. Visceral visceral fat. Here's why. Because visceral fat cells have high concentrations of GLP1 and GIP receptors. These when these receptors are activated the fat cells literally stop storing triglycerides and start releasing them for oxidation. 2023 it's cell metabolism tracked people on reatride specifically and measured visceral fat directly through CT scans and in 16 weeks listen to this number in 16 weeks visceral fat decreased by 42% while lean muscle mass was preserved. No sarcopenia. You can't do that with semiglutide and tzepid. Stop getting mad in my comments. You just can't. So what? Upgrade it. Listen, when you drove around, my first car was a piece of [ __ ] And you know what? I'm not going to sit there and yell at people when they're going, "Hey, I have a nicer car." When I upgrade my car, I don't look back and defend my car. I just go, "This one's way better." So what? Just get something better. You guys get so attached emotionally to things. Understand? Here's the magic with this. When you remove this real fat, you know what you take away? It's here's the binary takeaway for this. You remove the inflammatory organ that's causing all the problems. Hypotic steattosis fatty liver reversed. 89% of patients in 2024 clinical trial with human beings not improved completely reversed. How? Let me explain. I'll even go through all the pathways just so you know. So first reduced hypatic triglyceride accumulation. I was talking about that the liver stops getting fat because the signaling ratide tells hippatocytes the liver cells to use glucose for energy instead of storing it as fat. Second, increase tpatic autophagy. The liver cells literally clean themselves out so they start having room to do the right thing and they don't have this extreme metabolic load. Third, reduce hpatic inflammation. IL6, TNF alpha, which are elevated in fatty liver disease, decrease systemically everywhere, every when your liver heals your entire biological system heals because your liver is your system. It's not just an organ. It's the main frame for everything. Look at cardiovascular disease. Okay, this is a big deal. Here's what's wild about cardiovascular disease. It's not about cholesterol. It's not it's about inflammation and endothelial dysfunction. Ruminate on that. This stuff makes me laugh. Your endothelium, the inner lining of your your blood vessels, is a living breathing organism. It produces nitric oxide. It regulates inflammation. It regulates blood pressure. It through nitric oxide, right? It prevents clot formation. It's just this it's this thing 6,000 miles of of control inside you. When you have chronic metabolic disease, your endothelium becomes completely dysfunctional. It stops producing nitric oxide. It becomes inflamed and plaques form. Here's what reatride does to your cardiovascular system. 2023 there's a study in circulation showed that it increases enos activity. I nitric oxide synthes. That means your blood vessels start producing more nitric oxide. Follow me. This is really important because there's inos and enos. I need to go over this. So nitric oxide does several things. Okay? It relaxes smooth. It relaxes the blood vessels, the smooth muscle, right? So lower blood pressure. Right there you go. Right out of the gate. Prevents platelet aggregation. So lower clot risk. Reduces inflammation in the vessel wall. Reverses endothelial dysfunction. It gets even better with reatrite. It specifically by the way increases SGLT1 SGLT2 inhibition in the kidney. Now that sounds all technical and physiological, but here's what it basically means. your kidneys start excreting excess glucose and sodium which means blood pressure drops and fluid retention reverses. So you don't have to take feroseide all the time. You're not sitting there pounding Lasix like it's going out of style which is a horrific diuretic. So the look at the glucagon component alone in reachide. This is why again Sema and Tursza they don't they can't keep up. Never can. And the whole GLP1 pillow don't even get me started on that nonsense. Some of you guys are just lining up spoon feeding yourselves with it. At least I don't have to take a needle. It's so much better and FDA says it states I'm going to do it. Then you guys are all going to die. It's going to be bad. Just leave it that I can't even I'm not here to convince you. You do your own research. But the glucagon component activates kynise which increases mitochondrial function in cardiac meiocytes. That's what I'm talking about. You're improving your heart's energy production. And here's the result. 2024 study in Jamba Cardiology pretty reputable journal proved reatride patients had 31% reduction in cardiovascular mortality 28% reduction in myocardial infuction heart attacks 22% reduction in stroke improvement in ejection fraction even in those with pre-existing heart disease that's not prevention you guys that's reversal look at the immune system and cancer protection okay this is where I really need to break down the science because there's been a lot of misinformation here First, the cancer fear-mongering. No, Redat True Tide does not cause cancer. None of the GLP ones, they don't. They just don't. Let me tell you what the actual science shows because I'm tired of people running around clickbait BS trying to get you to look at their stuff because they run their entire life on hearts and likes and follows. Okay. 2023 analysis, diabetes, obesity, and metabolism looked at 14 separate trials involving over 45,000 patients showed zero increased cancer risk. period. In in fact, here's what they found. What they found is the opposite. It's like the Framingham study, right? Well, cholesterol is bad. And then the crap the study because we found out cholesterol is actually really good and we're killing people by trying to lower it. Yeah. You think? Okay. When you lose weight through red tide, you're removing visceral fat, which is an inflammatory organ producing estrogen and growth factors that promote cancer. When you're lowering insulin, which is a powerful growth signal for cancer. I went through this very detail on my cancer podcast. You're increasing autophagy which kills senisonent cells and precancerous cells. But here's what's really wild. 2024 study nature communications showed this is awesome. They took reatride and applied them to cancer cells. Specifically the cancer cells died. Why? Because cancer. Here's why. Because cancer cells are metabolically distinct from normal cells. They rely on a different energy pathway aerobic glycolysis called the Warberg effect. They bypass normal mitochondrial ATP production. So when you activate glucagon signaling specifically and restore proper mitochondrial function in the surrounding tissue around a a corrupt cell, the cancer cells lose their competitive edge. They can't use a broken mitochondrial pathway anymore. So the your biology gives them a choice, repair or die. But they can't repair. So apoptosis kicks in and they die. It's like so cancer is a predator that has evolved to hunt sick prey. When you make the prey healthy, the predator starves. It doesn't work. There's a follow-up study 2025. This this is wild. Showed red tide. They gave red tide to people with existing tumors. 67% tumor shrinkage. Let that number sink in. 67%. 67%. Biological environment that allows cancer to thrive. Red True Tide demolishes this and making your body completely hostile to cancer. It's like you're not welcome here, baby. At the cellular level. Look at the longevity. Okay, so I need to go. This is where people get confused because I need to go over longevity dose because there's so many people out there just going this is I micro death every day and it's it's so great for me. No, it's wrong. You can keep doing it. It doesn't Listen, you can argue with gravity, but the second you face plant gravity is going to prove you wrong. So there's a difference between using reatride for weight loss and using it for for longevity by the way. So and they both rely on weekly pulsatile doses. Period. But I'm just addressing longevity but period. Okay. So for weight loss, you're titrating up for 0.25.5 one 2.4 24 milligrams weekly, whatever you're trying to maximize the appetite suppression, right? And tell your body to burn instead of store. But for longevity, that's not what you want. That's not what you want at all. 0.1 milligram dose weekly weekly of reatrite is below for 99.9% of the people the appetite suppression threshold, but it's above the biological activation threshold. Here's here's what I mean. The effective dose isn't about dosage, it's about frequency of signaling. So when you take 0.1 once a week, you're giving your receptors a good hard punch. Your receptors downregulate slightly, just partially, and then they recover before the next dose. But if you take 0.03, I use this example because it's basically the same, right? 0.03 milligrams three times a week, you're giving multiple smaller doses, okay? Smaller signals. So here's the problem. Which is better? The weekly signal all day. 2023 study in nature metabolism showed pulsatile retatrite signals separated by recovery periods activates far more astronomically more downstream pathways than continuous signaling. Here's why. Because your cells have a memory receptor sensitivity actually increases if you give the signal then let it recover then signal again. And here's what the researchers measured just so you understand what's what's going on. Okay, let me drink some coffee. And they measured NAD+ production, EMPK activation and C one activity. All of these longevity pathways were more activated with pulsatile signaling at lower doses every week than continuous continuous signaling throughout the week daily or or every second day. So weekly 0.1 milligrams that's actually far more effective than daily micro doing proven. What do I know though? Right here's a beautiful part. At 0.1 milligrams weekly you won't lose any weight unless you your metabolism I said this earlier was just it's just completely wrecked. But your cells will upgrade mitochondria. You will increase autophagy. You will reduce systemic inflammation. Longevity, longevity, longevity. You're aging more slowly. And you're literally extending your health span. And they just proved it. So 2024 study in aging continuous 0.1 weekly reddited true tide adds 4.2 years to average human lifespan based on the mechanism of action and mitochondrial function, inflammation, and autophagy rates of of clearance. So listen to me. Listen to me. Let me let me put a bow on this so I can get this because I'm looking up. It's 42 minutes. So this is where it gets really profound. Every disease has three problems, right? The the three roots biological failures. Semic inflammation. Your immune system is in this constant low-grade panic attacking everything it can find. It's like a smoke detector so sensitive it goes off when you walk in the house and you have you're outside at a bonfire. It's that that fired up, right? So everything just sets it off. Then you have the insulin resistance. Your cells can't hear insulin anymore. Glucose piles up. Insulin cranks up. your meta your your metabolism becomes completely chaotic and then the mitochondrial dysfunction ATP shortage you mitochondria are broken you don't have the energy for healing fighting infection thinking clearly you don't have it for living you're literally running on the edge so most most diseases come from one of the problem one of the problems but most people have all three and the problem is they're connected in this brutally vicious cycle insulin resistance causes mitochondrial dysfunction which causes inflammation inflammation causes insulin resistance. Mitochondrial dysfunction makes inflammation worse. Death spiral. I call it this all the time. And here's what's so wild that's extraordinary about reatride. It demolishes all three of them at the same time. Look at inflammation. GLP. I'll go through these right off the bat. Okay, so glucagon signaling activates autophagy to clear out all those angry little terrorist cells, the senison inflammatory cells. Inflammation goes down, right? GLP-1 signaling increases IL10, TGF beta and regulatory T- cells. GIP signaling seals the gut barrier, reduces the lipopolysaccharide transllocation into the bloodstream. So inflammation goes down. Look at insulin resistance. Okay. So GIP signaling improves beta function. So your cells start hearing insulin again. Glucagon signaling activates the EMPK which improves mitochondrial function, glucose uptake. GLP1 signaling increases insulin secretion and insulin sensitivity. There's your insulin solution. Look at the ATP shortage, the mitochondrial dysfunction. Okay, all three of them, all three, the agonism of all three receptors activates mitochondrial biogenesis, activates repair pathways, and improves mitochondrial efficiency. Your cells literally become better at producing energy and producing power plants. It's not one thing. It is all of them being turned on simultaneously. Okay. 2024 meta analysis, 127 studies published in cell looked at the combined effects of all three of triple agonism on three factors across multiple issues. And here's what they found. Okay, 40, this is so important. We're talking red at true time if you didn't get what I just said. Okay, 2.1% point reduction in HBA1C. That is hostile by for diabetes. 47% reduction in systemic inflammatory markers. 23% increase in mitochondrial density. 34% increase in ATP production. 56% increase in autophagy flux. I went over these before. That's not an incremental improvement, you guys. That is systemic transformation of your biology. So, you live longer, better, and more fun. You become a juggernaut. And it's happening because you're addressing the root cause, not the symptoms. Okay? So, look, here's something that most people don't understand. Reddited true tide doesn't make you smaller, it makes you stronger. Here's why. Because of ATP, I need you guys to get this. This is the the the workout with this. Okay? You have more ATP. Just understand this with with training. This is why I'm I'm this is the workout version of reatride and why it's so wild. When you have more ATP, your muscles can perform better. But it goes so much deeper than that. 2023 study sports medicine showed athletes on Reddit true tide 12 this is wicked 12% V2 max they say just can't happen proven okay 18% 18% increase in time to exhaustion 9% increase in grip strength faster recovery between sets by 47% here's how better mitochondrial function in muscles equals more ATP for contractions reduced inflammatory response faster recovery improved insulin sensitivity better nutrient partitioning So calories go to muscles not to fat. Increased BDNF NGF in the brain. So more more effective better motor learning and neural adaptation. So when you're on reddit tide and you lift weights, you work out. You like talking lift the weights. I'm not saying going doing tai chi in the park. I got nothing against that, but I'm talking stressing your muscles to create new muscles and better muscles. Yes, it's hot in here. That's why I rub my forehead. I'm sweating. And you lift weights. Your muscles are hearing the signal more clearly. Protein synthesis is better and recovery is faster. You don't just lose fat. You gain muscle simultaneously. Remember, I am 200 lb. I know people that are 200 lb that are shaped like a circle and fat as a muskox. And I know people that are 200 lb that make me look like I've never like a vinyl, like a kid with a vinyl weight set at home, like I've never trained a day in my life. So, the weight doesn't mean anything. That stop looking at the BMI. The weight doesn't mean anything. It's the composition that matters. Redat tide crushes it. It makes it so if you become lean and mean man 2023 showed individuals on reddit true dietide actually preserved lean mass better than any other weight loss intervention ever studied and gained muscle while losing fat. That's not possible with traditional dieting because traditional dieting including semiglutide tepathide proven by the way using dexa scans tanks your ATP. Your body's in survival mode and the rebound is nightmarish. With reatride your body is in absolute thrival mode. Your workouts become more effective. Your recovery becomes more effective and faster. Your strength actually goes up. Listen, here's what I want you guys to understand. Okay, let me drink a little more coffee. And this is the part that should fundamentally change how you think about medicine in general. We've been taught to think that disease as they're separate categories, right? Heart disease is cardiology, diabetes is endocrinology, Alzheimer's is neurology, cancer is oncology. That is not how biology works. And any doctor should damn well explain that to you. But they don't. They go, "Yeah, yeah, it works like that." But this is a section of biology. All biology is connected. Nipple, nut, all of it. That's not how biology works. It's not compartmentalized. Biology doesn't have separate departments, separate floors. Disease is a spectrum of metabolic dysfunction. And all metabolic dysfunction starts the same way 100% of the time. Inflammation, insulin resistance, and mitochondrial failure. fix those and every single thing after that is better. Redatride is not a weight loss drug. It's not even a diabetes peptide. It it's a metabolic reset for your life. Listen, it's biological technology that restores your cellular power plants, seals off sources of chronic inflammation and restores your cellular ability to listen to hormonal signals. When you do that, your body doesn't need to be tricked into health. So, a number on a lab looks good. Even though you're still sick, it wants to be healthy. It literally heals itself. The weight loss, that's just what happens when your body has enough energy to stop hoarding. Okay. The improved the improved blood sugar, that's what happens when your cells can actually respond to insulin. The improved cognition, that's just what happens when your brain has the energy to do its job and think. How about the improved cardiovascular function? That's what happens when your blood vessels can produce nitric oxide properly. Again, 2024, Nature Aging showed people on Reddit true for 52 weeks. This is the most mind-blowing thing you can ever hear. They measured epigenetic age, literally how old your cells are biologically, not according to the number of days on a calendar. People on 0.1 specifically, 0 makes me crazy. People on 0.1 milligrams weekly weekly enough with you guys in your micro doing weekly showed proved 2.3 year reversal in epigenetic age. Your cells literally got younger, folks. not figuratively actually biologically younger. That's not instab marketing or hype or and it's mitochondrial repair and restoration. And what did I say right? It's like a renovation for your system. Look, I I could talk about studies on HBA1C, the reduction like the 2023 surmount trials. It showed HBA1C dropped 2.1% on average. I could talk about the liver studies, the cardiac studies, neurological studies, all of it. It doesn't matter. There's study after study after study and you need to look at who funds the studies because the people that are quoting studies that are pharma shills, they're the ones. Why are you listening to these people? I don't care. You don't have to listen to me. But I'm sitting here fit and healthy and I'm going to be 53 in a month and I'm successful and happily married and I love my wife. I love my God. I love my kids. I love everything about my life and I love helping you guys. That's what I come out here for. I don't come out here for you. I come out here for you. You got to understand your body. This is it's not about the money. Like I said, you want to join the black card? Great. Why is $997 and send Mia an email at you know what apply at unlockthecard.com and she'll get you all set up. And if you don't that's cool. Buy from elite biogenics or not. That's cool. But your body's not broken you guys. It is starving for for energy for clear signals for biological environment that is required that's not inflammatory so it can actually heal. For the last 50 years we have been treating bullet wounds essentially with band-aids. And we've like look at this. We've given di diabetics insulin, not asking why their cells have stopped listening. We've given statins for heart disease, not asking why their endothelium is failing. We we've given anti-depressants for depression, not asking why their neurons can't produce the energy. Retatide isn't a band-aid on a bullet wound. It prevents you from even getting a bullet wound. And if you get one, it turns you into Wolverine. It heals it. It restores mitochondrial function, insulin sensitivity, immune regulation, biological ability to heal and be healthy. And the wild part is, baby, we're just getting started. The data that keeps coming out is so Why do you think they're trying to put this on lockdown? Because if they lock it down, they could keep you out of health. They can lock you out of your own biology. This is just plain old physiology, biology, and biochemistry. I'm not here to sell you anything. I'm here to tell you that your biology is 100% consistent, and it doesn't lie. It doesn't lie. Listen, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go.
