# Never Microdose Retatrutide - Unbreakable Podcast 283

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

Man, sometimes I see things online. And I think 52 years old, the invention of the internet, social media, it's just a place for people to pretend they have knowledge and have none. I see some of these bro science Insta guru idiots when they're talking about Reddit True Tide and they're giving you guys the wrong information and telling you how to do it wrong. The big one is right now that I've seen this trend is micro doing Reddit True Tide. Are you out of your mind? And I'm going to tell you exactly why that's not going to work ever. It does not work. So if you're about to get it can't work. It goes against pharmacocinetics. It goes against biochemistry. So if you go if it worked for me, I bet oral peptides work for you, too. It doesn't work. And I'll explain exactly why. I see micro doing red truth tide all over the place right now. I just can't I can't with these idiots. It's it it doesn't even make sense. All it's doing is costing you money. The idea is so profoundly catastrophically stupid that it deserves a full-scale scientific autopsy that I'm going to do right now. And not even to educate its proponents. Not at all. because they're often so far beyond education, it's mind-boggling. But to protect the rest of you guys from their breathtakingly unbelievable ignorance, it's it's frustrating to me. So, I will explain why micro dosing is not a biohack. And if you're about to get in my comments and start going, "Well, micro doing works for me. Well, what for this? What excuse me, what about for that?" Micro doing works for reatride ever. And it can't. And I will explain it. It's not some advanced biohack. It is a high-priced pathway to failure conceived by people that think halflife is how long it probably takes you to go two laps around the damn track. It doesn't make sense. First, you listen, you need to understand what redatruide is. The engineered brilliance behind this peptide. Remember, it's not a drug. It is a signal. Drugs come in like a like a sledgehammer wrecking ball and just demolish things in your body. I got nothing against drugs when they're required to save a life. But they tell your body to do something regardless of your body saying, "I don't want to do it." They demand regardless. What a peptide does is it comes in, speaks the language of your body, and says, "Do this better." Your body cannot do something that it is not already designed to do. A peptide will not make it do something it doesn't know how to do. It's impossible because it's they're signals. You guys have to learn to differentiate because you're so conditioned. You got this dogma running through your head that a drug and a peptide are interchangeable. They're not even [ __ ] close. So, keep that in mind. Peptides are signals you are running right now as you're listening to this. There are peptide signals thousands, millions, there just hundreds of millions coursing through your body. So keep that in mind. Drugs don't do that. Drugs wear off and then you have all kinds of other problems. So it's a retatrite is a system reset. It targets three separate hormonal pathways. I'll go over them again cuz I want you to understand it with unbelievably exquisite precision I have to add. So, let me break down the machinery receptor by receptor and pathway by pathway and cut out the noise and g get down to the beautiful gorgeous biochemistry of this thing because read a truth tide every time I do a little more research on it impresses me even more. And it's not a pill. If you're taking any oral version of any of these things, you are being conned. It's not some suggestion. It is a hormonal command signal that is required that your body will only respond to if it is injected subcutaneously. Now, by the way, this is not meant to treat, diagnose, cure, prescribe, advise. It is only hypothetical, educational, entertaining. It's all theoretical. It's all made up. This is just like watching [ __ ] Pinocchio at Disney. It has no validity whatsoever. In fact, my nose is probably going to start growing because this is all pure [ __ ] That's what they want you to believe. If you know, you know. But y'all know the truth. That's why you're here. There's my coffee. A little bit left. blacker than a witch's crotch. So, I got to rip through this until I'm out of if I'm out of coffee, I can't talk anymore. That's how this works. So, first here's here's how it works. Read a true tide. When it first gets into your system, it launches this really precise strike on your central command center of your brain, the hypothalamus. It specifically targets something called proopio melanoort neurons, POMC's. When these neurons get activated, they release alpha MSH. I've talked about this before. I don't expect you to remember it. I'm just saying I've mentioned it before, but this is a neuropeptide that binds to melanoorton 4 receptors. This is the bio, this is why you need to understand this. This is the biochemical equivalent of slamming down the off switch on your appetite, just killing it. Not subtly, but simultaneously it suppresses something called neuropeptide Y, NPY, which is the most powerful hunger signaling molecule that your body produces. It doesn't just make you feel full. It reprograms your brain's definition of hunger. itself and that's just the beginning. So while this is all happening, it also runs over to the pancreas and here it pretty much performs like what I do out here every day performs a master class on the endocrine system and it runs it with endocrine and it runs it with endocrin and it runs it and it runs it with endocrinological precision. It binds to GLP-1 and GIP you know this receptors on the beta cells which triggers G-proin coupled receptor cascades that skyrocket intracellular cyclic AM cam this amps up glucose dependent insulin secretion to this astronomical degree but only here's the best part but it's it's sugar dependent it's glucose dependent only when blood sugar is high so you got no more wild insulin spikes just this flawless and surgical glucose management system that's running at the same time All because all you took was a tiny little injection. And at the same time, it tells the alpha cells to stand down, which shuts down all unnecessary glucagon output. So, it's doing two things very effectively. That shouldn't even happen at the same time, to be honest. But here's the real party trick of this entire beautiful system. This entire well orchestrated, that's why when these guys come out, I heard it's going to be a six agonist receptor agonist pill. Not going to work. I heard they added IGF-1. Not going to work. It doesn't matter. You It's redundant. Those are getting gimmicky in order to get you to buy it. You need these three. That's it. You don't need Advil squared. If you had to take an Advil, you just need Advil. And when people go, I got a prescription for 800 Motrin, so just take two Motrin. And if they're 200 milligram motrins, which I think they are actually, just take [ __ ] four. I got a prescription for 800s. Okay, you're an idiot. That's what happens when you add things to this. It's redundant. You're already doing it. If you needed to do more, you would just up your dosage. That's how simple this is. Stop complicating things you guys. So here's the real rabbit out of the hat of this entire thing. The thermodynamic masterpiece of this entire elegant peptide and it happens in the liver. Redatride very aggressively binds to glucagon receptors and on hypotytes cells in your liver which kicks off this powerful signaling pathway. Cyclic. So here let me lay it out for you. Cyclic AMP activates protein kynise A which phosphorolates and activates hormonesensitive lipase HSL it's just easier to say hormone sensitive lipase HSL is the enzyme that unlocks your fat cells hydraying stored triglycerides into free fatty acids the stuff you're going to burn and then it floods your bloodstream with all this fuel ready for oxidation to be used essentially you following me here so it forces your body to become this incredible fat burning machine never mind you marry this with Matzi and Slooh PP3 and you are a beast of fat fat burning potential. But this dramatically ramps up energy expenditure and it turns your metabolism into a furnace. So I always hate saying this part, but it's I'm also going to give you integrity. And that is that you could technically sit on your couch and just burn fat. There is no other thing on the planet like you guys. I remember driving down the I5 going to Disneyland with my wife one time and we used to drive to Disney 30 40 times a year really. We used to go all the time because it was 5 hours away from us and it was such a novel thing for me because I'd never my parents never took me anywhere when I was a kid except camping and to go see relatives. So, I mean, yay. When you're a kid, it sucks. They took me to something called Hershey Park. Didn't really give a [ __ ] I wanted to go to Disneyland, Disney World. Never went. I didn't go until I was 30 by myself. I drove down there by myself. I sat in class just to get make a I'll come full circle back to driving down I5. High five. But I sat in class. One of my closest friends in college, man. This guy Terry, I got nothing but love for this guy. He is just a damn good dude. If you know Boston Rob from Survivor, same kind of energy and and just vibe. Just a good dude, right? Just a good dude. Hell of a doctor. He's down in Costa Mesa. And I mean, he showed up to grad with his truck packed, grabbed his his diploma, and [ __ ] off. Literally like I got nothing. I'm done with NorCal. Y'all suck. And went and hid out behind the orange curtain. Then California went tits up. So that's a whole other conversation. But the thing is, I asked him one day, I was probably in class 4 days. And I mean, this is how weird colleges because they want you to be in class cuz they get paid when you're in class. If you're not in class, then they don't get paid. So they do something called overcutting you if you don't make your attendance, which is the most ridiculous thing when you're stupid. Like bunch of toddlers, the teachers, not the students. I paid to be here. [ __ ] you if I decide to be here. Not if I blow my education, that's on me, not you. Which meant they were getting more money. I have no respect for most colleges. Even all of you guys asking me to come speak at your college, boy, you better make it worth my while. Not with money, with energy and making some fundamental changes with your college and your weird woke agenda. You change that, then I'll come speak at your college. And I said, "Hey man, how far is Disney from here?" And he goes, "Dis? Like you mean like like Disneyland? Like Disney? Disney?" I go, "Yeah." I go, "Did you ever go?" And he goes, "Dude," he goes, "It was like an hour away from my house. I went all the time." He goes, "It's just Disney. You when you're around it all the time." I'm like, "Seriously?" I go, "How far is it from here?" He goes, "Maybe like a five, five and a half, six hour drive at best." I go, "Can you check me in? Can you sign me in?" He goes, "Yeah, sure." He, "Where are you going?" I go, "I'm going to Disneyland." And he goes, "Seriously?" I go, "Yeah." He goes, "Yeah." He goes, "I'll sign you in until you come back." He goes, "Have fun, man. Drive safe." He goes, "The I-5 is kind of a bear sometimes." He goes, "Then he tried to give me these shortcuts to take, right?" Cuz he grew up there. I didn't remember any of them. And so I got on the I5 and I drove down to Disneyland and I stayed there for 6 days by myself. I bought my first season pass with my broke ass and I met a bunch of people. I became friends with the tons of people at Disneyland because that's how I'm wired. And uh I've bought a season pass ever since until we moved to Texas like 5 years ago, 6 years ago. And uh so I mean we went to Disney all the time. And so Brandy and I and the kids, we were driving down to Disney one time. We're driving down I5 and you get closer to you come up over the grapevine and you come down into there's this golf course down the side. You go by Six Flags, right? You see the water coming down. And it's like kind of how you know where you are. And you go past that and all of a sudden I'm starting to see all these signs and they're for lawsuits for lap band surgery. And I'm telling you, I I think I counted at least 50. First of all, California is a lawsuit capital of the planet. You can throw a dart hit somebody's name and sue them for anything. I'm going to tell you Texas ain't much f far far behind in isn't that far behind because of that. I'm just dealing with that [ __ ] illusion right now. He's got like 22 lawsuits going against people because that's his knee-jerk reflex, right? because he's a he's a very rich bully and he's an [ __ ] He's a con man. He's a very bad man. So, somebody needs to take him down and I'm going to burn his life to the [ __ ] ground because I do not tolerate bullies and he ruined my wife's dream and cost me a lung. So, I have every right to do it. It's not I don't have any animosity for I don't care about petty things. Dude, I have a shortened lifespan because of you and you didn't take any ownership of that. You're a bad dude. God is going to have retribution. I'll just leave it at that. It ain't me. You got to make peace with God and it ain't going to happen. But I saw these lap band billboards about lawsuits against surgeons that gave people the lap band, right? It's like a big rubber band. They shrink your stomach. You guys do the weirdest [ __ ] to get thin. And yet when someone goes and presents you with the most targeted effective peptide on the planet that will help you lose weight and keep your muscle, the only one, semiglutide and turseptide are trash. You can argue with me all you want. Science is on my side. So go ahead. I will just stick your chubby ass on a DEXA scan and I will prove it. I will put you one year later on a scale and I will look at you and you will be a fat bastard because your rebound is going to be brutal cuz it didn't solve any problems. It was just appetite suppression with great marketing, which is why doctors tend to push it because it's approved. But when you guys complain about doing something that's going to help you, but you're willing to get cut open and have a rubber band put around your stomach, are you out of your mind? So maybe when someone comes out here like me, you're not going to see lawsuits for this unless you're an idiot and you don't know how to use something properly. But then you should probably also not use the blender when your mommy and daddy aren't home and you're 40 because you don't you require constant adult supervision cuz you don't know how to conduct yourself like an adult. But then you should also not get behind the wheel of a car. You definitely should not have any medication in your house cuz you don't know what to do. You should sit at home in the corner clapping, playing with a squeeze ball and maybe an Atari because otherwise it'll have too many buttons and you'll maybe get stressed out and you have to take some Prozac. So you guys need to pay attention to what I'm telling you. So listen, when you become this fat burning machine, you can sit on that couch and do nothing. And I hate saying this, but it's the truth. It is the gospel truth, man. So I have to tell you this cuz I'm not going to keep information from you. Don't do that because the problem is you're going to cause other issues with your body. So just fix the machine. So train, eat right, do the way, do the things I tell you to do so you can win. I want you to win. I'm not sitting here going, "Go buy at my stuff. I don't care. Just do something that's going to help you, not do something because it's easy and cheap." So let let me recap exactly how badass read a true tide is. In the brain, it shuts down appetite. It literally rewires your appetite circuitry. So your hunger doesn't exist at all. In your pancreas, the insulin secretion is controlled perfectly. So now your glucose is all managed and in your liver the fat oxidation is maxed out full skinny pedal to the floor. So your metabolism is cranked up so you burn fat while you sleep. Like I said that's why you you marry this with M C and Slooh PP332. You're an unstoppable force in nature. Like it is a coordinated biochemical warfare on obesity and the obesity that you did to yourself, but this will help you get out of it. And yet some guru with a large social media following and a proprietary blend of ashwagandha wants you to trickle this into your system. That is an insult to science. You cannot micro dose this. You cannot this. Listen, this triple agonism creates a self-reinforcing very powerful feedback loop drastically reducing caloric intake, highly sensitizing insulin response and maxing out basil energy expenditure. It is the perfect storm you guys of fat loss. But this storm requires just like outside like for a tornado it requires a specific atmospheric pressure to run to even form. That pressure is called steadystate concentration. That's pharmaccoinetics. So let me explain how this works and why micro doing is 100% false. It can't work. So I'm about to leave all the influencers in the dust and their brains are going to short circuit just nuts because pharmaccoinetics is the mathematics of medicine. Reat tide here I'll go through it very as as easily as I can. Redatride has what's called a terminal half-life of about it's approximately 144 hours so about 6 days right this is a property of its structure its fatty acid side chain it's binding to albumin which slows something called renal clearance I'm not going to get into all that but just understand just trust me I'm right it's not trust me bro trust me I'm just right half-life is not a story it's not the story either the story is steady state concentration it's CSS steady state is the equilibrium point where the the rate of the drug administration ation equals the rate of the drug elimination. So the plasma the plasma concentration which is in the blood plasma concentration stabilizes and this is where the magic happens. This is for all things that you take. The time to reach steady state is determined by halflife. It takes four to five this listen to me this is important. It takes four to five half- livives to reach 94 to 97% of steady state concentration CSS for red tide. Follow the math. If you just follow what I'm telling you, that is about 24 to 30 days. Day days, not micro dosing just to get to the level where it is doing all its magic all the time. The weekly dosing, listen to me. Listen, please listen to me. The weekly dosing interval is not arbitrary, you guys. It is is pharma pharmacologic genius because the 7-day injection perfectly reinforces the plasma concentration just as it begins to decline from the previous dose. So it maintains that very crucial very stable therapeutic plateau right because otherwise it's doing this but if you micro dose you don't even get there. I'll tell you you can't even get to that dose. So you can never this you can never go through the 4 to 5 half- livives to reach the 94 to 97% of steady state right concentration which means you'll never get to the 24 to 30 day mark where for red truth diet that's what's required it's impossible listen it's science it's just science follow me the steady state concentration is non-negotiable it is the prerequisite for this is going to make me crazy this stuff drives me nuts so bad you can tell right because I can't stand I don't do bro science like if I was teaching a college class right now I think I would probably have a brick on my desk and I would throw it at people that argue with stupid things. This is probably why I'm not a college professor. So, holy crap. Constant high affinity occupancy of GLP-1, GIP, and glucagon receptors. That's why this is non-negotiable. Okay, it is it is a prerequisite for this steadystate concentration is the prerequisite non-negotiable prerequisite for constant high affinity occupancy of GLP1, GIP, and glucagon receptors. Otherwise, it doesn't work. They get scraped clean. sustained suppression of NPY which was the hunger hormone right and constant stimulation of POMC's in the hypothalamus also talked about this uninterrupted upregulation of lipolysis and thermogenesis so you're constantly burning so you're doing all the things but you need to have steady state concentration in order to do all this it is none of this will happen without it it's impossible without CSS steady state concentration yes I realize the letters are backwards just the way it's it's the acronym you have a drug that that flickers with CSS ess you have a drug that actually does its job. I realize it's not a drug. It's just the easiest way to explain it. So listen, here comes the micro doing idiot and their logic and I'm being generous right now calling it logic is I have to drink some coffee. So profoundly stupid it defies basic pharmaceutical principles. It really does. They're brilliant advice. So for all of you guys asking me micro doing questions, listen to me. They're brilliant advice. Tiny doses every day because you get less side effects and you get the same benefits. That's what I've I've read this at least 50 times on 50 different people's posts and it makes me want to find an app that a little hand comes out of their phone and slaps them across the head just for being stupid. So, let's dissect this idiocy with a scientific scalpel and I'll prove exactly why they're wrong. So, here's an anatomy lesson on absolute disgusting failure. And I hope you're one of these gurus that tries to do this. Please argue with me. I will burn your skull because micro doing shatters this entire elegant system that's being built out of reatrite. It is an act of biochemical sabotage that fails every conceivable level. Every level. So the steady state, it gets completely sabotaged. Injecting a tiny fraction. This is just listen, I'll go through them by 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9. There's at least 15 of these r things that I could do. I'll go until I'm just sweaty and irritated. The first thing it screws up is the steady state itself. Injecting this tiny fraction of a dose daily. For example, what I read was 0.1 milligrams daily versus 2.5 milligrams weekly means, follow me, means that the amount administered is likely less than the daily clearance rate, which we already learned is required. So, you perpetually operate in the what's called the distribution phase. So, you're trying to fill a bathtub with a thimble while the drain is wide open. So, you never get to the therapeutic steady state clearance. You never get to it, but that's required for for efficacy. But you can't get to the dose where your body goes, "Now I know what to do with this." You're sitting at 20%. The math is indisputable. You're paying for a Ferrari and you're pushing it around wondering why it doesn't work. That's what's going on. That's the first part. How about this? The neurological problem. You're the rewiring of the hypothalamic set point. It requires this very strong sustained signal. Very. Your brain is tough and it doesn't like the change unless you demand that it changes. Synaptic plasticity demands intensity and duration. A weekly dose provides days long signals that that carves new fullness pathways into your brain's neural architecture. A micro dose is this weak fleeting signal. It's like a it's like a whisper in a hurricane of ghrein. If you remember MK67, the grelin mimeic all this your brain doesn't even register what you're doing with red tide when you micro dose. The addictive this is the problem. This is which is what tessensine mitigates. The addictive dopamineergic food seeking circuits in your vententral tegmental area, the VTA and the nucleus encumbent laugh at Red Truth. They just go, "This isn't going to work." You get zero long-lasting neurological effects. Zero. It's impossible cuz it's not loud enough. It's like right now my wife is in the house, which is way over there whispering. I'm out in a studio insulated far away. I'm never going to hear her. That's the equivalent. It doesn't even touch glucagon. That's like What do we have? Third thing to activate the hippatic glucagon receptor sufficiently to upregulate the cyclic AMP PKA pKa hormone sensitive lipase cascade right that's it requires a very potent signal a specific receptor occupancy threshold has to be crossed you have to get over this hurdle to trigger this very energy consuming process a micro dose doesn't do it never crosses the threshold it's impossible it's like the receptor's here and it's just trying to tickle it you get none of the ther thermogenic energy expenditure benefits. You have this. You've effectively unilaterally disarmed redatruide's most powerful weapon, the glucagon agonism. You've turned a thermonuclear triple agonist into a mediocre overpriced GLP analog. And you wonder why it doesn't work. So for you guys, listen to me. For you guys that are going, well, tepide worked better. It's cuz you were taking a shitload more even though it wasn't doing nearly the effect. You try raising your dose on red tide and you're going to go, "Holy [ __ ] why didn't I start here before? I'm not done yet. How about the side effects? Because that's the biggest one. I saw this going take micro doses every day and you mitigate the side effects, but you still get on the b all the benefits. You bro science, I want to find you and put you on the mat and put you to sleep, wake you up, put you to sleep again. I just I can't do it with you guys. The moronic just the moronic justification is to minipize side effects. This is it's actually worse. It's backwards. The GI side effects, so nausea and vomiting are often related to the rate of change of drug concentration and the sudden extremely intense activation of GLP receptors in the gut and area postrema of the brain stem. So listen to me. A weekly dose causes this initial peak and then this long smooth plateau allows your body to adapt and it calms everything down. Micro doing creates it this sharp sub the sub sub therapeutic spike. You're giving your body this daily chemical insult without the payoff of any adaptation or therapeutic benefit. So you're jabbing it all the time. It's like you got a needle with something in it. You jab yourself, but you never take what's in it and give it to yourself. So you just keep stabbing yourself. So you get the pain and discomfort, but you never get the benefit. You're conditioning yourself to experience nausea every single day. It's the worst of all worlds. It's all the sides and none of the benefits. It's exactly the opposite. And guess what? Science just proved it. Now what? I'm not done. How about this? It's so arrogantly ignorant because no micro doing proponent has ever presented a pharmaccoinetic model once. They can't calculate the volume of distribution or clearance to to design a dosing regimen that would achieve the same steadystate clearance as weekly dosing. They can't. They're guessing. They're conducting unregulated, uninformed experiments like a bunch of idiots on a desperate population. you who want to get all the benefits without any of the work required to get it. You know what it is? It is medical malpractice on the other side of a [ __ ] cell phone and you guys just buy into it. Please stop. It's painful. A weekly dose is a master class of physiological timing. I'll explain. I'll even go through the days with you. How about that? Because otherwise I'm just going to get frustrated. I'm already 28. So days 1 and two, so 0 to 48 hours, concentration, maximum receptor occupancy, brutal appetite suppression by the hypothalamic and brain stem effects, metabolic ignition, cranking up the rocket through glucagon agonism. Now hold on, there's more. Remember I said we're going 7 days. 144 hours is I guess less, but it still days 3 to 6, 48 to 144 hours is that plateau, that sustained therapeutic plateau that's required. The body adapts to the new hormonal millu, right? And so now lipolysis and fatty oxidation run rampant at a very steady state just consistent all the time. The hypothalamus is right now being rewired. It's going well I'm not going to change. So now I have to just do this. I have to change. I have to become something new. Right? That's how it is. It's not one snap. It is constantly doing this all the time now. Day seven greater than 144 hours concentration begins its very predictable decline. What do you do right now? Take your next dose. Perfectly reinforcing the system and maintaining that CSS that steady state concentration. This rhythm allows for maximum biological effect with minimum if any side effects because it allows for adaptation. Your body is this adaptation machine. It's how the drug was designed to work. It's how the peptide is designed to work. It's perfect. You guys are [ __ ] it up. Either by listening to these insta idiots, these imbeciles, or by just experimenting yourself because you don't like the initial hit. Then don't do it. Then maybe stop eating so much. I don't know what to tell you. I'm trying to help you. So to all the bro scientists, the influencers, the charlatans, and the liars, and the [ __ ] and imbeciles pushing this nonsense, your advice isn't just wrong, it's maliciously incompetent. Show me. Here, I'll help you. Show me your calculations. Show me. Show me your calculations for the steadystate concentration of your micro doing protocol. Show me. I'll wait. Show me. You can't. How about this? How about you explain the receptor occupancy kinetics using the law of mass action? You won't, cuz you don't even know what that is, do you? cite a single published paper, a single pharmacocinetic model that supports your claims. You don't have one. You are playing biochemical charades and selling a failure disguised as optimization cuz you guys love that damn word. You are the reason people spend thousands and thousands and tens of thousands of dollars, see a 5B weight loss, and give up and quit on themselves blaming the peptide, the drug, whatever it is you gave them instead of your utter incompetence. You [ __ ] You are a fraud. You are a dead fraud. Your protocol is a disgrace to the science that it claims to respect. You are the worst thing that has happened to the democratization of medical information. Your body is not a social media trend, you guys. It is a complex biological system that operates on immutable laws of chemistry and physics. Redatride is a precision instrument built built on decades of real science and biology. Its dosing schedule is not a suggestion. It's the key that unlocks the entire machine in your body. To micro dose it is fundamentally to misunderstand what it is and how it works. It's to choose voluntary failure. It's to pay a premium for the privilege of your own ignorance. Stop listening to fools with followers and financial incentives to lie to you. Start listening to the human biology and the physics. Listen to the pharmacocinetics. Listen to endocrinology. Listen to a guy like me who actually gives a [ __ ] about you, who comes out here for free and says, "Here's the real information. Now you go and make an educated decision. Respect the science and hit it hard every single week, once a week. Get earthshattering results that are actually possible with Redat True Tide or you go ahead and micro dose and stay exactly where you are, confused and overweight, just fat and now considerably more broke, more pissed off with more side effects. The choice is yours. But stop pretending both paths lead to the same destination when they don't. One is a perfectly calibrated lethal laser against metabolic decline and obesity. The other is this flickering candle that's about to [ __ ] go out. Your choice, man. It comes down to the the same thing. Demand better from yourselves than you do from your so-called experts. Anyway, I hope you get something from this, man. I really do. I got to go. Never waste my times up.
