# BPC157 and Longevity (and why it terrifies big pharma) - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

So, it is it's date night. Actually, it's quarter to 5 and I'm going to knock this out real quick and then I'm going to go hang out with my wife. But I started thinking I've seen all these posts about BPC and BPC57 and most people are getting it wrong. They call it a healing peptide. It does so much more than that. So much more. If I had to give you the ultimate longevity peptide, I would say BPC-157. And the more I go down the rabbit hole, the more he smokes, this stuff is incredible. Just from a biochemistry standpoint and then a human biology standpoint, it's it'll change your life. And that's the reason why like big pharma is terrified. No matter what you think, no matter what kind of stuff you want to try and sell me on or talk about or argue with me, please don't. Just please stop arguing in my comments with me. I just don't read them. So, I just don't care. Maybe make yourself feel better because you still live at home with your mom. I don't know. I don't know. I just I don't really know what to say. I'm a I'm a doctor that comes out here because I care and that's it. You do what you want to do with this. I don't really know what you want to do with it. But if it's to come on and argue, you have a self-worth problem and you've got none. But BPC 157 has big pharma so terrified. And why do you think they're trying to take it off the market? Listen, you guys, here's the deal. You guys have been lied to non-stop by big pharma and the FDA and the medical industrial complex trying to tell you that aging is the way they have it set up is inevitable. That chronic disease is just part of it. Like you just you're going to get sick and you're going to get diseases. That's not true. Inflammation is something you manage with NSAIDs or old school celre hydrocodone or whatever the hell they give you. And that when your neurons die and you get dementia or Alzheimer's or Parkinson's or MS that it's they're just gone forever and there's nothing you can do about it. and that your organs they just go tits up. That is wrong. That is so wrong. And it's so frustrating to me. I'm going to prove it. I'll prove it with BPC157 that why they are absolutely terrified of this molecule because it's so powerful and so fundamentally disruptive to the disease management industry that you guys have become. We've all become subject to and it's costing us our lives and our health. And people will, you guys will get in my comments, some of you, and argue for it because you go, "Oh, what? Because we don't need doctors?" No, for the most part, you do not need doctors. Because most doctors are now just paid shills or they argue or they're people that are so well-trained that now they are just pharmaceutical reps with a white coat and a really expensive degree that taught them nothing. Nothing. This is why they're try they're doing everything they can to keep BPC and all peptides out of your hands. Listen, and how many of your doctors have told you about this? I will I will give you some biochemistry that's going to make your brain explode. So, BPC57, this is the master class in BPC 157 that you've needed that I'm going to help you with. And why big pharma is absolutely terrified. No matter what you think, they are terrified of this stuff because they are trying to have people come out and go against peptides. Like Dr. Adia trying to put a blowtorrch on peptides. Why? He's wrong. It doesn't matter what you I don't care if it comes from India or China. It doesn't matter. It's still an effective peptide in trying to reduce its efficacy and quality and saying they're made in these bunker basements with terrible safety standards. You think that big pharma gives a crap about your safety when they're putting additives and things into vaccines and whatever drug they're giving you that you guys they're protecting you. You guys are so indoctrinated and everybody is. We've all been. It's I'll tell you this. I'll take a peptide from some backwater lab somewhere else if I had to over some wellcurated marketed big pharma pill or injection any day of the week. BPC157. It's pentadapeptide. It's a big fancy word for this chain. Who cares what it's called? It's it's derived. It's not even that. People go, "It's in your gut." No, it's not. It's derived from a protective protein that is found in your gastric juices, the stomach acid that like your body already makes a version of this stuff. And here's where it gets really interesting. This peptide is a partial sequence of a body protection compound that's naturally secreted in your gastric mucosa. They found this in 1991. scientists in Croatia, they isolated the fragment that needs to do the job and that demonstrated the most healing potential, the highest healing properties and nobody knows about that. It's just some bodybuilder, some powerlifter, some athlete, some instab bro or influencer on social media. And listen, if that's you, that's great. But then you should be Can you explain the KB cycle backwards? Can you trace a blood a drop of blood through the entire cardiovascular system? Can you explain neurology? Can do you understand any of the human biology at its simplest form? No. Then you got no business talking about this stuff. You soccer moms need to knock it off. Do what? I mean, you're going to do what you're going to do. And I'm sure this is going to offend some soccer mom that's sitting there going, "Let me show you my abs and my insecurity while I'm sitting in my kitchen going, "Here's how I take GHKCU and why I do it and why my skin is positively glowing." But that's not what you're doing. And then you in your you have, you know, 10,000 shares and 5,000 comments and none of them are to give people value. They're to get them to buy your crap from some affiliate code or a peptide company you just decided to start that you're ordering from some company that you've never heard of. And listen, all things aside, if you don't understand what you're selling, but you're trying to make money off it, you're a piece of [ __ ] You don't even know what you're doing. So listen, BPC, your body produces the parent compound and it's designed to protect your gastrointestinal tract from the hydrochloric acid that would otherwise chew a hole through your stomach lining like it does with everything else. The pH is 1.5. This peptide doesn't just protect your stomach, though. No, not at all, man. This when you isolate this specific sequence and you introduce it systemically, subq, oral does not work. Period. We can go toe-to-toe on that all day long. And if you keep going, "What worked for me, bro?" No, it didn't. You got your brain was rewarding you for the routine, not the results. Your blood and your tissue will tell you otherwise. But you don't want to go down that route. This stuff protects you and heals everything. And and even the molecular structure, if you want to look at it from a biomechanical standpoint, you look at the molecular structure, right? The five specific amino acids arranged in this very precise sequence, right? If you take one of those and you take it out of sequence, you change one, you clip one off, you lose the magic. So explain to me then if I have a key and it's got to go into a lock to unlock the door and the keys got 15 teeth or it's got five teeth. If you want to look at the five amino acids specifically, and I take one of those teeth away, and then I try and open the door. It's not going to open. Agreed? Yes. You may as well just say yes. You can argue, but it's just say yes. If you go, I just kick the door down. Defeats the purpose, dumbass. How is it that if you cleave off a piece of the molecule, it's still going to work? Just so you know, there is zero zero possibility that if you take oral BPC that it gets to anything in your system. Zero. Won't pass through interosites. It won't make us make it past first pass degradation. It won't survive the peptidases. It won't survive the the hydrochloric acid is specifically designed to chew up proteins. What do you think amino acids are? Listen, stop thinking when you guys buy these oral compounds, it's good for your gut, though. No, it's not. It's made in the gut. No, it's not. This is a fragment of what's made in the gut. First of all, you got to get it right. This is why I'm explaining this to you. And this isn't some synthetic pharmaceutical designed to block one receptor and cause 29 new side effects. This is a biomimetic compound, meaning it works with your body's existing systems, not against them. Which is what makes this so beautiful. Because listen, let's separate amateurs and professionals and influencers and people that actually give a crap about humanity, which is the only person I've met is me. Again, not an arrogant statement. I'm not out here. What am I selling here? I'll help you out. You want to buy from Elite Biogenics? Awesome. Thank you so much for supporting my company. I don't care. I'm still going to give you the information. If you don't, how many times have I been here? If you want to join the black card, which is access to me. If you go, what's the black card? One year access to me. my live Zoom Q&A that I do every Monday where I answer and solve everybody's problems for two hours straight, plus access to the VIP community where you can get in and ask me questions. It's actually me answering you labs. I don't care. Send it all to me. I'll help you out as best as I can. I promise. There's people in this group, you guys, that have spent 8, 10, 12, 15, 20 years going to doctors. all these people that you guys respect trying to flaunt their degrees and you guys being at me going, "Didn't you get your license revoked? Didn't you you're just this, you're just a I'm not a PT, by the way. I went med school and Cairo. So, just so we get that straight. And but it doesn't matter. An electrician that loses a piece of paper that says you're not allowed to be an electrician according to some agency doesn't lose their ability to be an electrician. You guys get that right? But I'm not out here selling you on my stuff. I'm selling you on yours. So, you actually have the answers so you can have a solid health span. But you guys wave these flags for these medical doctors like they're such great people. But these are the people, the very people that are causing all the problems cuz they're just salespeople. What am I selling? You want to join the black card? Great. I answer you 24 to 72 hours on average. If it's a more complex case, it takes me a little longer. But you have direct access to me. You get the resource library where there's all kinds of stuff. But none of that matters. You have access to me. So, I'll help you. How much is it? wire transfer only 10 grand. If you want it for anything other than that, keep waiting. It'll go up to $25,000. Knock yourself out. I'm doing and that's still cheap. Just so we're clear. Listen, BPC, it does more than just heal stuff, which is what the soccer moms and the influencers and the Insta bros and the wannabe people come out and talk about. Just heal stuff. That's lazy. That is absolutely lazy. Go deeper. It works through so many different mechanisms simultaneously. And this is why it's so powerful cuz it's not a one-trick pony. It's this master conductor of every single thing that goes on in your biology. Look at it. Modulates. And I was talking about this in my Instagram post today. It modulates the nitric oxide pathway. It not just increase, not just decrease, modulates. Does it controls it when it need not just controls when it needs to be controlled. So 2009 journal of physiology Paris BPC they prove this interacts with the nitric oxide system by listen to this is so wild by upregulating nitric oxide synthesis when you need vasoddilation when you need healing but preventing excess nitric oxide rememberos enos I talked about this preventing excessive nitric oxide production that leads to oxidative stress massive tissue damage when it needs to be throttled back it's like having a thermostat instead of some switch that people just flick on and off, which is how pharmaceuticals work. Look, it it activates something called the FAK paxillin pathway. Just walk with me a little bit. Let me keep going down this. Just trust me. You're going to be like, I don't even understand what language you're speaking. Stay with me. Focal adhesion kynise. F AK and pylon are proteins that are critical for cell migration, proliferation, and survival, baby. So when tissue is damaged, you need cells to migrate to the injury site, multiply, and survive long enough to repair all the damage. Agreed? Okay. So BP BPC157 activates this pathway, essentially turning your body into a construction crew and giving them both the blueprints and the motivation, the pay to show up and do all the work to the best of their ability until it's done. 2020 Journal of Orthopedic Research confirmed this without question when they proved that it causes a tendon to heal 60% faster than if you left it alone. Sign me up. They were reattaching hamstrings, hamstrings in mice and rats in a fraction of the time. And people go, "This stuff doesn't work." I love when people go BPC doesn't work. That is some serious rage bait clickbait [ __ ] It is absolutely effective. If it works in ways and if you have something and it doesn't work, you bought bunk from an imbecile that tried to sell probably a soccer mom selling something that has she has no concept or they have no concept of what they're selling. They just want the money and they're like, "Look how much money I'm making." Knock it off. This is your biology you're screwing with. Don't mess with this you guys. I'm trying to give you the answer so you can make an informed decision. Listen, buy who you want. Buy from whoever you want, but I'm trying to help you. Look at the third thing it does. It regulates growth factor expression. Specifically, VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor, FGF, I don't talk about this one a lot, fibroblast growth factor, and EGF, epidermal growth factor. 2018 European Journal of Pharmarmacology showed BPC157 increases all three, the expression of all three, VEGF, GF, and EGF at injury sites like this, which mean but it's it knows where it's going, you guys. How crazy is this? which means more blood vessel formation, more oxygen, more nutrients, less waste, less metabolic catastrophe, less damage, faster healing of the damaged tissue, more supply lines to the battlefield if you really want to break it down. And look at this part. This is the last one. It is so massive. It stabilizes cellular junctions. Your cells are connected by tight junctions, right? They get they get stuck together really well. Adherence junctions and gap junctions. When these breakdowns, you get leaky tissues like leaky gut, leaky blood brain barrier, leaky vascule throughout your system. EPC57 strengthens these connections by upregulating proteins like oludin 2016 did the to the same same place. Same place a European journal of pharmarmacology showed that in interstitial barrier function repairs it to 100% where they couldn't even find this anymore. The mechanism applies systemically. It applies to your vascular system, your brain, everywhere. That's what I'm trying to explain to you. Listen, you know how I'm big on inflamm this the three biological failures, right? This is why give me my Nobel Prize. I solved all disease and I'm doing it because I care, not because I want the Nobel Prize. I want the Nobel Prize because I want people to remember. That's why I don't care about the money. I care about people going, "This guy's going down in history for changing history in the he's on the right side of that equation." So, I inflammation, systemic inflammation, just talk about inflammation in general because this is where everything changes. You've been taught that inflammation is bad, but that's only half true. I talked about this in the KPV. Acute inflammation is essential for healing. Chronic inflammation. That is what's kicking your butt. Because here's what's really happens. When when tissue is damaged or infected, your immune system releases pro-inflammatory cytoines. IL1 beta, IL6, TNF alpha. These create swelling, redness, heat, pain. That's all good initially. It brings immune cells and healing factors to the site that's injured. Right? But here's the problem. Modern humans, this inflammatory response doesn't freaking shut off. So your diet, stress, lack of sleep, environmental toxins, stupid decisions, recreational drug use, they keep the inflammatory cascade activated. So you develop chronic systemic inflammation. This is the root of every single disease. Every single one of them. BPC57 doesn't just reduce inflammation. It regulates it and controls it when it needs to be there and shuts it off when it doesn't. 2014 Journal of Physiology and Pharmarmacology showed BPC57 reduced pro-inflammatory cytoines, specifically IL6 and TNF alpha, while maintaining the early inflammatory response necessary for healing. This this is like having a skilled firefighter with a laser beam and a sight on his hose, knowing the difference between a controlled burn and a wildfire, knowing when to do which one. But here's where it gets wild. It's this is this this stuff nerds me out because I love it. It simultaneously upregulates anti-inflammatory cytoines. So you need this side of the equation as well, right? So you can't just have one side, not the other. This homeostasis is designed to function this way, which is why pharmaceuticals struggle because they're wrecking balls that come in and annihilate and demand your body does something except it's demanding something that your body is fighting against going, I don't want to do this. You don't have a choice when it's a drug. So anti-inflammatory cytoines IL10 TGF beta 2017 they prove BPC157 shifts macroofagages from M1 the pro-inflammatory state phenotype right to M2 T-inflammatory tissue repair phenotypes your immune cells literally change their job from destroy everything to rebuild and protect baby and the mechanism EPC57 modulates what do you think NFCappa B nuclear factor cap CAPA B which is the ultimate regulator of inflammatory gene expression. So when NFCappa B is constantly activated, you're in the state of chronic inflammation. BPC157 prevents the excessive NFCappa B activation without completely suppressing it, which would cause more problems. Balance not wrecking ball. That's why I'm talking even when you looked at KPV and you compared it to prednazone, not even in the same world. Predinazone might save your life if it's required. Absolutely. I'm not saying don't do life-saving things. I'm saying the things they're telling you that you need to do for the rest of your life. I have a my executive assistant, Mia, for crying out loud, was told if she stopped taking a certain I'm not going to put her on the spot, but if she stopped taking something specific, she was going to die. What kind of screwed up medical doctor drops that kind of threat on a human being instead of going, "How do we make your system so much of a juggernaut that you just run and [ __ ] run until you can't for 100 years?" This is a person with a husband and kids. Like, why I would never say that to a patient. I would never say that to a patient. I'm not going to tell you that because that's not the truth. Listen, this is BPC 157 is the closest thing we have to a longevity molecule. Like you you do understand life extension like this weird dude that's drinking his kids blood or whatever he's doing. This isn't about living to 200 years old in this decrepit little body. It's about extending your health span. The number of years that you're actually functional and vital and energetic and kicking ass and taking names. My buddy Brad Lee, I love this guy to death. He's such a good dude, man. And I'll tell you this, what he said was, "I want to be crushing it with my family, with my wife and my kids." Do you know how cool that is? He wasn't like, "I want to look all jacked so everybody stares at me." He goes, "I want to be so radically fit and on point that I can do all kinds of stuff with my wife and my kids so I can live this life health span. I respect the [ __ ] out of that." Here's the truth bomb that you guys need. You age because of cumulative damage that exceeds your repair capacity. Every day your cells face oxidative stress, DNA damage, protein misfolding, cellular debris accumulation. When your repair mechanisms keep up, you stay young, baby. When they fall behind, you age. BPC157 tips that scale back towards repair through so many different ways. Look at telomeir. So we look at epitoolon for telomeir repair, right? The whole DNA strand aglet is on the top. keeps cells from becoming senicent because as the DNA shortens after every division it gets worse and worse until it eventually runs out of room to do that. the aglet phrase, the telomeir phrase, and the cell becomes senicent, which is a little biological, what do I call it? A biological terrorist, little kamicazi that destroys your system. Epitoolon works very well for that. It's proven to extend life. EPC, listen to this. Same thing. This is why I'm going to do a kickass BPC157 and epitoolon marriage together on a in a podcast. If you want to hear it, you should probably listen to it about longevity. It'll blow your mind. So, listen. BPC57 and Telmirs 2019. They proved reducing the oxidative stress because of BPC157 shut down the oxidative stress markers 40%. That's a big number. Oxidative stress is the primary cause, primary reason of telmir shortening. Less oxidative stress, slower telmir erosion, slower cellular aging. Sign me up. Look at mitochondrial function, ATP production. Right? This is critical. Your mitochondria are the power plants of every single cell you've got. They produce ATP, which is the currency of your own life, cellular energy. And as you age, mitochondrial function declines. So now you produce less ATP, more reactive oxygen species, the shrapnel that's destroying your cells, damages everything. 2021, they showed BPC 157 improves mitochondrial respiration efficiency and reduces reactive oxygen species. More energy, less damage. That is the longevity formula, baby. Boom. Look at autophagy, right? This is the cleanup that happens inside your cells, which we everybody's, "Oh, I'm going to fast. I'm going to fast for 72 hours." Why? Why? All you do is put yourself in a starvation state. Fasting is good. Don't get me wrong, but I could do a whole podcast on fasting if you want me to. Somebody send me an email. Don't send it in the comments cuz I'm not going to read it. Send it to me on Instagram. Autophagy is your cellular. It's Wayne Hzenga, right? When he made waste management, he it's like the recycling program. It clears out damaged proteins, dysfunctional organels. He didn't just do Blockbuster, by the way, Wayne Hazinga. It's cellular junk. You guys are like, "What?" When autophagy declines, you accumulate basically trash in your cells. It leads to dysfunction, disease, degeneration. 20 cell metabolism showed BPC 157 enhances autophagic flux. That means that your cells are cleaning up the mess themselves significantly more efficiently than if they didn't have this. Look at stem cells. You guys remember stem cells, right? The stem cells are your body's repair reserve. Kind of important. As you age, stem cells become senicent, tired, exhausted, or just they just go tits up. So 2018 endocrinology showed BPC 157 protects stem cells from oxidative damage, maintains their regenerative capacity, so you keep your repair crew young, functional, and highly motivated to do all the things that you need to have happen in your body. That's why you look at CPI over in Mexico and they actually have real Listen, I'm tired of the stem cell clinics here in the US charging people an arm and a leg. Like they go, "Here's your stem cell routine." They give you a fraction of the stem cells and then they have to basically go, "I'm going to sign the paper, but can I have my arm back so I can actually use this?" Because they pull your arm off and beat you with a wet end because they're charging you so much. It's ridiculous how much Listen, you look at just about the cost thing. A drug that costs two bucks anywhere else cost you $200 here. And if somebody starts crying about peptides, how come peptides are so expensive? Our my average order in Elite in Elite Biogenics is about $2,200. For one, because every peptide that comes out of my company, I would give to my wife, my kids, my best friends, and people know it. And you know what? I'm a walking, talking, bleeding, living, breathing example of what happens when you take care of your physiology. Because everybody that knows me for the last 5 years knows that 4 and 1/2 years ago I got a lung pulled out of me and my life got screwed up right to hell and I had to climb out of that hole. I'm 52. I'm going to be 53 in March. I'm proud of what I've built out of myself and my life and my mindset and how much I want to help people cuz I will bleed for mankind. I love you that much. Problem is some of y'all don't love yourself enough. I want my machine to work well cuz I want to spend as much time as I can with Brandy, my kids. I want to hang out when my little brother Sean and his wife Joe get their asses moved here. I want to hang out with them, man. He's my little brother, man. It's like this is the stuff that I want to do with my life. I can't do that if I'm wrecked. I can't do that if I'm old and decrepit. I am not abnormal. I'm the norm. Abnormal is allowing yourself to buy into the white coats of the god complex demanding that you should be on 12 medications by the time you're 40. You can reverse just about everything. Your body's designed to heal. It's not designed to fall apart and kill itself. And they're leading you to believe it does. I will go against that narrative all day long and I'll keep proving them wrong. I'm going to war with everybody who says that you're supposed to be sick and feeble and decrepit. I want everyone to be a Spartan or Spartan that badass juggernaut because you're built for that. Listen, every single chronic disease, every single disease, every single one you guys, three fundamental biological failures that I exploited and showed and proved, I prove it every single day. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Where's my Nobel Prize for this? Because you know what? They're giving Nobel prizes for stupid things sometimes that have no value, but they look pretty on paper. And they've got a stack of scientific research behind them instead of real outcomes. I'll prove it. Look, I'll prove it. Look at systemic inflammation. Okay, we already know. I just covered this. The BPC15 regulates inflammation modulating NFCappa B, all that stuff. Shifting macroofagages, right, to M2 phenotype, balancing cytoine production. But here's the deeper connection. You need to follow me on this. Chronic inflammation causes insulin resistance and mitochondrial dysfunction. Domino one. When inflammation is chronic, inflammatory cytoines, TNF alpha, IL6, I mention them all the time because those are the heavy hitters, interfere with insulin receptor signaling. They activate serereine kynases. I've explained this at phosphorolate insulin receptor substrate 1, IRS1 at the wrong spot. So it prevents proper glucose uptake into the cell. So you become insulin deaf, insulin resistant. Your cells are giving insulin the finger even though they're swimming in a sea of insulin. Chronic inflammation damages mitochondria, reduces ATP production. So now you're tired, inflamed, probably pissed off, and insulin resistant. Congrats, you're pre-diabetic and aging rapidly, and you're blaming your parents. BPC breaks this cycle by addressing the root dang cause, inflammatory regulation. Look at insul. That's just the first domino, man. Look at insulin resistance. 2015 European Journal of Pharmacology proved something absolutely remarkable. BPC57 improves insulin sensitivity independent of weight loss. And the mechanism, excuse me, wait, when I get fired up, I swallow my own spit. It It reduces inflammatory cytoines that interfere with insulin signaling and it improves endothelial function, which enhances glucose delivery to tissues like glute 4 transporters rise to the surface of the cell, open the doors. There's so many things that occur. Better you need this. Better insulin sensitivity means better energy metabolism, reduced fat storage, improved brain function because glucose crosses the bloodb brain barrier much more efficiently, reduced cardiovascular risk or cancer risk by far. BPC-157 is not a cancer causer. It's not carcinogenic. It doesn't work like that. Cancer cells love insulin and glucose. Look at the Warberg effect. Otto Warberg 1931 won a Nobel Prize for proving what cancer really does and how it flips the script on a cell and how the damaged mitochondria can't flip back. So when you fix a weird systemic inflammation, insulin resistance and mitochondrial damage, the ATP famine, the cancer cells can't flip back to where they were and they have no choice but to adapt, which they can't. Apoptosis, they die. But how many of your doctors when you all have cancer say that? No. They go, "You need to be on a chemotherapeutic drip for the rest of your life and we're going to radiate the snot out of you. They burn you, they slice you, they poison you, and none of it has worked." And the cancer's gone up. It's not because of better detection. It's not. Look at the ATP shortage, the famine. Remember those little mitochondria, little power plants, right? That's my universal science. Like a real curvy woman. BPC57 improves their function, which means more ATP production. More AT means more, follow me on this, more energy for cellular repair, better neurotransmitter production. Your brain needs ATP to make serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine, etc. It needs it. It needs it. Improved muscle function. We muscle is the primary glucose disposal site of your biology. Better immune function. Suppressed. You get suppressed immune response because you don't have any energy. Immune response is ATP expensive enhanced detox. So your liver detox pathways always require ATP. So now your liver can't function the way it's designed because it doesn't have the energy. You get BPC in your system. Not only does it heal apatocytes, it also solves the ATP issue. So your liver can do its 13,000 plus reactions. It's 500 per second that it's spitting out. The fact that it's saving your life right now and it's the one thing you can't your liver is completely regenerated every 150 days. And they go, "Wa, it's permanent. Liver disease is permanent." No, it's not. Doing stupid things makes it permanent. Pumping yourself through medication that causes damage to your liver makes it permanent. Listen by, please listen to me. By solving these three fundamental problems, BPC doesn't just treat the symptom. It addresses the root cause of every chronic disease. I am going to tear a hole in this universe. Listen to this. Your brain is under a constant beatdown, inflammation, restricted blood flow, amaloid beta accumulation, towel protein tangles, oxidative stress. You know what this causes? Just so you know, Parkinson's, multiple sclerosis, dementia, Alzheimer's, BPC-157 crosses the blood blood brain barrier. 2019, neurology confirmed this by using radial lababeled peptide tracking. They proved it once again. There it is. But yet, your doctors never said that. I had to deal with somebody who was dying of dementia who I still have a real It aggravates me. Aggravates me because I could have saved that person. I know for a fact God put that person in my life. I could have saved him. Could have done it. pisses me off, man. Some selfish sons of [ __ ] out there and doctors who are like, "No, you're going to break my ego. You're going to hurt my feelings. You're going to say hurty words. Don't listen to them because they don't have the check marks and the boxes that they're supposed to." So, you cost somebody their life, somebody their husband, somebody their father, screw you right the hell. I would expect any one of you guys that's doing something wonderful and incredible with your life that actually loves mankind to step out and do anything you can to make sure somebody you love and care about or that you know you could help that you do everything you can to help them. You know what doctor means? It means teacher, educator. It doesn't mean arrogant prick with a stethoscope prescribing drugs on some digital pad. It doesn't makes me angry cuz above all do no harm actually means something to me. Look at BPC reduces neuroinflammation. 2020 objective neurology. BPC57 reduces micro gleal activation. The little immune cells stop attacking you so the brain's inflammatory system shuts down. Less neuroinflammation means less neuronal death. It enhances BDNF, brain derived neurotrophic factor, which is what do I always call it? Miracle grow for your brains. Fertilizer for neurons. Easiest way to do it. The wheat just grows, baby. Promotes neuronal survival, growth, plasticity. 2017. BPC57 upregulates BDNF expression. More watch. Just follow me. Be more BDNF, more neuroplasticity, better cognitive function. You become a mental juggernaut. Neurological juggernaut. How about protecting that precious bloodb brain barrier, which is life? That bloodb brain barrier, just so you know, security system for your brain. When it breaks down, inflammatory molecules and toxins enter your brain. 2016 neurology demonstrated BPC57 strengthens tight junctions in the blood brain barrier, halting the ability of the enemy, which is inflammatory molecules and toxins from crossing into the brain. Sign me up. And if you go, what about cerebral ly or dhexa or cmax or senank? I'm not talking about that. I'm talking about BPC. If you know what's funny is my podcasting software chose my most popular phrase. It was laughing and BPC. BPC57. I said more than anything else in a year might be because I believe in it. It actually works. Promotes dopamineergic neuron protection. That's Parkinson's. Hallmark of Parkinson's 28 2018 neuropharmacology looked into Parkinson's showed BPC57 protects dopamineergic neurons from the oxidative damage and subsequent apoptosis the cell death. This is so massive because what did I just say? Dopamine neuron death is the hallmark of Parkinson's. And yet people will go, I better take something else because it's FDA approved. You guys need to reevaluate your life. I'm not saying anything to make you feel guilty or rattle off a bunch of side effects or anything because they don't exist. Look at skin, psoriasis, chronic wounds, eczema, diabetic leisures, and ulcers. These are manifestations of a disregulated inflammatory problem and system and an impaired healing system. BPC157 addresses every single skin condition you've got. Catinosy proliferation. These these are your primary skin cells if you don't know. 2014 dermatology showed PBC57 accelerates coratinous site migration and proliferation speeding up the skin which is a barrier. This is designed to be here by the way. It's not supposed to be opened up. The skin is surprisingly tough. Speeding up the barrier restoration. So you get to actually have skin that does its job. Look at collagen synthesis. Yes, I realize GHKCU does it increases type one and type three production. When you marry it up with GHKCU, it goes nuclear 300%. More collagen, stronger, more elastic, more youthful ladies. Skin angioenesis skin needs a very healthy blood supply. Great. BPC's one BPC BPC 157 VEGF. If you remember, I talked about that, right? VEGF, EGF, FGF. Upregulation brings more blood vessels to damage skin the way it's supposed to. I'm not talking spider angiomas. That's from a liver issue. Improves nutrient delivery and waste control and removal toxins. It chokes off the toxins that are going to your life. Look at the immune system. Psoriasis is an autoimmune condition, right? Where TE- cells attack the skin. If you didn't know, now you know. BPC's ability to shift immune cells to anti-inflammatory phenotype. Remember M1, M2, right? Reduces this autoimmune attack in a way that nothing else can do. And by the way, if they're putting something on top of your psoriasis or your eczema, there's your first indication that they have zero idea of human biology and physiology. Zero. But they'll never admit that. They'll go listen to this jackass with a hat that says, "Lion's not cheap." Really? Growl, baby. I'm more lion than sheep ever. Heart disease kills more people than you can possibly imagine. And BPC-157 is ridiculously cardiorive. Look at endothelial function. Your endothelium, the lining of the blood vessels is critical for cardiovascular health. When it's dysfunctional, atherosclerosis, hypertension, thrombosis. 2018 study in cardiovascular week showed BPC57 improves endothelial nitric oxide production which reduces what do you think what do you take nitro for reduces blood pressure improves blood flow but nope they're not giving you BPC they're giving you a bunch of medication instead they're putting you on statins which actually kill you cardio protection from eskeeia when blood flow to the heart is reduced eskeeia cardommyiocytes die 2015 cardiac journal BPC57 protects heart tissue from eskeemic damage by reducing the oxidative stress and the apoptosis which is cell death. Arhrihythmia. I hear this all the time. How do I This one dude that I used to hang out with. This guy was such a clown. Just made non-stop promises. This guy was one of these people that my wife and I finally went, "I'm out." Cuz it was just endless promises from this guy and he had arrhythmia. She had aphib and it was nonstop. What about this? What about this? I gave him all the solutions. He did none of it. He did none of it and just kept hitting me with questions and making empty promises as some rich dude that did nothing. So it's I my respect went right out the window for that guy. But arhythmia like I gave this guy solutions. I give you solutions. You decide what you do with it. Right? They did a study in 2014 where they showed that BPC 157 prevents arhythmias by modulating potassium channels in specifically in cardiac tissue. So now you what that means is that you cuz remember you got potassium channels and voltage gated calcium channels right in the heart. So more stable electrical activity which means less result or less risk of sudden cardiac death. Less result of what what do you think less result of arrhythmias and VTAC vib all the problems perkingi fiber problems bundle of hiss problems conduction problem name it. Listen your biology is designed to be robust. We change that atherosclerosis by reducing inflammation. And I explained this with KPB KPB about the foam cells. With the macroofagages that come in and gobble them up, turn into foam cells. You get improved lipid metabolism. BPC157 prevents the plaque formation in arteries because it keeps the endothelium nice and smooth, right? Like a ceramic pan. Look at your kidneys. Kidneys filter. If you guys remember, 180 L of blood a day. They're under constant oxidative stress, vulnerable to massive damage from medications and toxins and hypertens. 2017, they did the study on rats. I still remember this. was actually read on um nefrology right nefrology journal they had acute injuries in these rats had they induced I have to say this I'm I'm going to be transparent but they induced acute injuries in these rats and what they did is they showed that BPC57 reduced kidney inflammation markers so TNF alpha and IL6 prevented the tubular necrosis which is kidney cell death improved creatinine clearance you need to know this okay kidney function that's what shows your kidney function by the way protected against drug induced nephrotoxicity, which means, watch, they gave the drug to cause the problem. BPC-157 protected the kidney from the drug that they were giving to the kidney or the rat to cause the problem. Why would you not take this stuff? Listen. And the mechanism, by the way, by reducing oxidative stress and inflammation while improving renal blood flow. The end. Look at wounds. This is where BPC157 got famous, baby. But people understand the depth of the mechanism. They reviewed 20 plus studies of over a thousand people each on wound healing and found this. BPC57 accelerates every single phase of healing. Inflammatory phase properly regulated so it's not excessive. Proliferative phase enhanced fibroblast activity, collagen deposition, remodeling phase. You understand, just follow me on this, right? Just track with me. Trust me, I'm going fast because I want to go hang out with my wife. Improve collagen organization, which means less scar tissue. And the scar tissue that gets laid down is nice and smooth. It's not halfhazard like somebody just dropped spaghetti on to you. It heals tendon to bone. 2019 study showed BPC57 accelerates Achilles tendon healing 60% compared to the controls. 60%. I had a friend of mine blew his Achilles flipping a tire. I know how devastating that is. Peptides increased fibbral organization and mechanical strength and tensile strength of the tendon. You don't want to blow your heel cord people. Heals muscles. Muscle tears 50% faster healing with BPC. Better structural integrity of the repaired tissue. I could do this all day. Improve fracture healing. enhanced callus formation and mineralization of the bone that was initially broken. Universal mechanism, it's always the same. BPC57 brings together all the elements needed for healing, reduced harmful inflammation, increased growth factors, improved blood supply, had cell migration and proliferation. Now, imagine if you pair this up with things like hypothetically GHKCU, TB500, PEG MGF if it's a tissue problem. I could do this all day, baby. This is so effective. Here's what's absolutely remarkable about BPC57 that separates from every pharmaceutical drug on the planet. There is zero tachilaxis. So, let me explain what that means. It means your body doesn't adapt to what you're giving it and require a higher and higher dose all the time. Research has been over 30 like we're talking 30 plus years you guys shows zero tolerance development. Zero. Why? Because it's not forcing a response. It's facilitating your body's natural healing mechanisms that you are supposed to have. There's no receptor downregulation. Most drugs here, listen, here's how most drugs work. They bind to a receptor and over time your cells start reducing the number of those receptors. It's called down reggulation requiring higher and higher doses. BPC57 doesn't work through a single receptor. It's a signaling peptide that works through multiple pathways, multiple receptors all throughout your body. There's no hormone suppression like even like testosterone or thy thyroid or hormone therapies or estrogen. But BPC57 doesn't suppress your natural production of a damn thing. They showed this 2016 menopause weak. No changes in baseline hormone levels after long-term administration. But how many times have you heard that? Hashimoto, they tell you have to be on thyroid medication for your entire life. Give me a break. I've got at least three people in my group that do not take thyroid anymore and they are kicking butt and taking names. It mimics natural processes. BPC57. It's derived from a naturally occurring protein in your body. It works with, not against. It's not a wrecking ball. It's not. It's getting a massage. Listen, I will make this crystal clear for you and then I'm going to go inside. The pharmaceutical industry is built on management of disease, not cure of a disease. Their business model requires, it demands that you are sick enough to desperately need medication. Then they dangle the carrot. You take the medication, which causes a whole new set of problems. But they don't want you so sick that you die quickly because now you aren't manageable. You're just deceased. BPC157 threatens this entire model because it's not patentable. You can't patent a naturally occurring sequence. They're trying, but no patent, no monopoly, no massive profit margins, so they're not going to do it. It addresses root causes. When you actually fix the inflammation, you fix the insulin resistance, you fix the ATP famine, the mitochondrial dysfunction. People don't need blood pressure meds or diabetes meds or anti-inflammatories or SSRIs or MAIs or pharmaceuticals or or statins or whatever the hell else they're going to stick in your body. It's cheap as dirt. And stop thinking peptides are expensive. They're not. They're not. A friend of mine had a therapeutic drug that cost over $30,000 a month. There's no peptide therapy on earth if they're charging you that for the peptides themselves. If they're charging you for advice, that's different. But if they're charging you for the peptides themselves and they're 30 grand, you might want to shop around. The peptides are cheap. Synthesizing this peptide, they cost pennies. Compare that to a cancer drug that costs hundreds of thousands of dollars per year. It's far too effective. Molecule that presents prevents disease is absolutely it's like digging for water, right? You only have a job until you strike water and oh [ __ ] better cover it up, right? So I have more work. That's how these guys think. So it's it molecule that prevents a disease is worthless to an injury industry that profits from treating what? Treating disease. Think about it. Follow their go down the rabbit hole a little bit. Look at the FDA's recent actions that are they're desperately trying to ban peptides. They're getting into compounding like and they're trying to prevent things like RETA or BPC157 which all do wonderful things. They claim it's about safety. No, it's not. Where are the deaths? There's none. Zero. Zero deaths. Where are the adverse drug the ADRs? Right. Where are the adverse reaction or adverse event reports? Where's all the talks data? There's none. It doesn't [ __ ] exist. Yes, it makes me mad. Sorry about the fbomb, but it makes me mad cuz it doesn't exist, but they're trying to convince you that it is. And then you guys get on social media and just start chirping about it like you're an expert in Reddit or Kora. How about you shut your mouth and you actually own the research and go and solve your problem instead of complaining about how fat you are and why you're still living with your mom at 41. Why don't you solve the health crisis instead of going, I have to run to my doctor to take a bunch of new medications that are just going to make me worse? Listen, there's 30, 40 years of research, so many thousands of animal studies, so many human trials already. The safety profile is obnoxiously clean. More people die from booze and Tylenol and everything else than have ever. There's peptides don't cause deaths. Here's why. Follow the money. My wife says it all the time. Follow the money. BPC157 threatens hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars in pharmaceutical revenue and they are scared. Listen, let me explain this. I want to touch on the immunity thing really quick. Your immune system doesn't function properly because this is the struggle. Your immune system is keeping you alive right now. And people look at that and go, "No, that what do you think kills cancer?" Doesn't function when you're chronically inflamed. It's like trying to have a rational conversation with a toddler while the fire alarm is going off and they're holding a Nintendo controller. The inflammatory environment confuses your immune cells, NK cells, natural killer cells, cytotoxic T cells. They don't work. They become hyperreactive to harmless things or they and they ignore things that they should be attacking. So allergies, there's no such thing as an autoimmunity. Your body isn't designed to attack itself. That is a creation by man, not the label. It is a it's usually what it means is it's we have no idea why it's doing this, so we're just going to say it's autoimmunity. I think that's such a croc of [ __ ] It's the immune system starts missing actual threats. infections, cancer cells, all the things that it should be doing its members self or other. That's all it does. That's all it recognizes. BPC removes the inflammatory noise by restoring thymic function. Right? You have this thymus that starts to shrink once you're born. And the thymus trains tea cells and as you age, inflammation increases. Thymic function declines. 2010 they proved BPC-157 reduces thymic inflammatory damage and preserves its function. Balancing TH1 TH2 response. I talked about this. Your T- helpper cells come in two main types, okay? TH1 fights intracellular threats, so viruses, cancer, etc. TH2 fights extra cellular threats, bacteria and parasites, which is why vaccines are such a load of horseshit. Chronic inflammation skews this balance. BPC57 restores it. It's like when people give you a vaccine for shingles. How does that even make sense? Make it make sense? You can't. You can't. I'm sure you could probably find some convoluted way to connect the dots, but you can't. According to biology, it shouldn't work and it doesn't. Go figure. Jonah Sulk. He cursed himself when he created the polio vaccine. Just so you know, look it up. Reduces autoimmunity. So the problem that we are plagued with right now downregulates excessive inflammation and modulates the te- cell activation. BPC reduces autoimmune attacks on your own tissue. Allows you to recognize self and other and it keeps your immune system from getting confused. Look at arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis. the models that they've used and the tests they've done and the research studies they've done on this is incredible. It enhances the natural killer cell function. Natural killer cells are your radar, right? Just looking all the time for cancer. And this is your cancer surveillance system. They identify and destroy abnormal cells before they become tumors. Chronic inflammation suppresses NK cell activity. BPC57 upregulates it, restores it, brings it back to the way God freaking built you. How about we just let me let me put a bow on this because what time is it? Oh yeah, I'm getting hungry and I want to go hang out with my wife. So it's not a healing peptide, man. That's not what BPC is. It's a biological regulator that addresses the root cause of virtually every health problem that exists. It regulates inflammation instead of suppressing it like predinazone. It improves insulin sensitivity and metabolic function. It solves the ATP problem, mitochondrial problem, the shortage. It protects and heals every tissue system in your body and extends your health span through I can't count how many different ways. Restores immune function by removing the inflammatory interference so your cells can actually do their jobs. And it does this all with zero side effects because it's working with your biology, not against it. It's not a wrecking ball going you're going to do this whether you like it or not. The research is everywhere. There are thousands and thousands of studies on this stuff from 91 to 2021. I find them everywhere. And I have great memberships that allow me to pull all kinds of research. But it shows these mechanisms in rigorous scientific details. And nobody's getting profit off of these. Just so you know, in the way that pharmaceuticals, 70 to 80% of research is funded by pharmaceutical companies. And when it shows something that goes against their magic little drug, they bury it. The clinical observations on peptides are there, especially BPC. There's millions and millions of people. You find any powerlifter, they know damn well about BBC157, and they will swear by it all day. It allows you to heal from conditions that conventional medicine considers chronic or incurable, except biology is irrefutable. Look, if a molecule exists that can prevent or even reverse the biological process that causes 90% of human suffering and death, if that molecule has 30 plus years of research showing remarkable efficacy, unprecedented safety, if that molecule threatens to disrupt the most profitable industry on the planet, you might want to reconsider where you're looking for your health because this information is invaluable. You going to wait for the FDA, the industry that gets 75% of its drug review budget directly from pharmaceutical companies to approve it? Did you know that? Going to wait for some doctor named Henry who learned pharmarmacology from textbooks written by drug companies to prescribe it? Are you going to recognize that you just got a whole shitload of information that will fundamentally change your damn health trajectory if you act on it? Because here's the ultimate truth. The power to heal always inside your body. always. No doctor anywhere ever cured anybody of anything. Even after surgery, you still have to put yourself back together. The doctor doesn't make you magically the cells regrow. You were literally designed to repair, regenerate, and actually thrive in a way that makes God [ __ ] it look good, man. Like, he built a machine. BPC57 removes the barriers and provides the support that your body needs to do what it already knows how to do because it's working with existing signals. The question is not whether BPC57 is a longevity peptide or sure as hell isn't, whether or not it works. The question is, are you going to actually step up to the plate and swing for the fence and actually knock it the hell out? That's what you have to look at because this is all about your life. I don't come out here for mine. I love my life. It's badass. I'm trying to help you have the same one. And you guys, if you know my story, you know I've been through. Anyway, I really hope you got something out of this. I love you guys. I got to go. Never miss.
