# GHK-Cu (Copper) Masterclass To Help You - Dr Trevor Bachmeyer

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

So, this is a master class on GHKCU copper because I'm telling you, the misinformation out there is it's unreal. It It blows my mind. So, I'm trying to help you guys out. So, everything you need to know about GHKC, why it's not a skin peptide, and why it is I don't know. It remember what I said about BPC15? I said if I had to choose one, that would be it. This is a close runner on that. Like I'm having an argument in my mind on which one because they both work. Oh my, this GHKCU is so red. By the end of this, you're going to know more than every doctor on the planet. I promise. I promise you will. You just got to hang with me for I don't know how long I decide to keep talking here and give you all the information. But copper GHKCU master class, everything you need to know and why it works and what makes it so savage because it's more, like I said, it's more than a skin peptide. You guys have to understand that cuz this is what's going on is there's so much propagation of garbage information from the Insta Bros and the peptide people, the people selling their peptides. Listen, I own Elite Biogenics. If you want to buy from me, great. I will do everything I can to help you. And don't sit there and send me weird messages about your orders on Instagram because the company is big. So it's not just me sitting in my shed. I'm not like when Phil started reaming out duck calls. Now there's a labs and warehouses and stuff that like we do this for real. Sean and I. So this is a big deal. And the other side of the equation is if you don't want to buy from me then don't. I just can't help you because I have no idea what the hell you bought. And then the other side of it is the black card. If you want real answers and help and you want to get rid of all the problems that you have, there's no sale in this. This is me going, you want to join the black card, I will break my fingers to make sure you have the answer and solve all your problems. I have more people in the black card that have I told you yesterday or whenever I did my last podcast, I believe it was yesterday, was they've had more success in 3 days with me than they've had in 10, 15 years going through doctors because all of you doctors are pharmaceutical reps and you know it. You know it. and and that's what gets frustrating. So, let's go line by line with copper because I'm going to demolish everything you thought you knew about aging and disease and what your body is actually capable of. And I'm going to do it with one single molecule that 99% of the people out there, including 99% of the doctors completely misunderstand. GH KCU, three amino acids, one copper ion, and the biological equivalent of finding the answer to every single thing that your body needs to know how to do to become Wolverine. It is that incredible. And I said this on my Instagram post. This is what aggravates me so much is the Insta Shills and the Insta Bros and the Insta Experts and the doctors and their longevity clinics and the face cream and the soccer moms. What is with you guys? the soccer moms just spilling out information as if they have any knowledge whatsoever about what they're talking about. The Chachi PT told me about it. Then have a conversation with me and the problem is you're not going to know what you're talking about and you're going to look like an imbecile and I'm still going to look great because I know what I'm talking about. I don't sit there and tell my wife how to be a mom. I don't tell my wife how to be a trainer. I don't tell my wife how to be a prolevel. She's a professional soccer player. I don't teach her how to do all that stuff. She's good at it on her own. That's if I did, I'd sound like a muppet. Same thing. You guys are doing things that stop trying to be an expert just because you want to jump on the peptide train. These have been around for a long time. They will be around for a long time. Any old school powerlifter knows, damn, these have been here forever. They ain't nothing new, son. And that pisses me off because they talk about it like it's some fancy skin ingredient or the latest biohacking trend. That's like I said it in my Instagram post that I'll post later today. It's the five-minute version of the master class, right? It's like calling a nuclear reactor a cute little space heater. That's not how it works. This, after you're done listening to this podcast, this should make you question why it isn't being injected into every single human being over 30 years old. And you're going to understand biology, human biology, better than every doctor out there. Really, every doctor out there. You mean you ready? Let's go. Because here's the thing that nobody tells you. GHKCU isn't some synthetic lab creation. It's not. It's been in your body since the day that you were born. 1973, 50 years ago, Dr. Lauren Pickart discovered this molecule while researching why young blood heals better than old blood. And I'm not talking metaphorically like everybody's, and I'm not talking about adrenochrome or some weird vampire nonsense or Hollywood goofy stuff. Literally, he took young human plasma and old human plasma and went, "Okay, what's the difference?" Because that's how research is created. And the answer, GHKCU concentration. At age 20, hear me out. At age 20, you've got about 200ish nanogs per milliliter. And by age 60, remember I'm 52. I'm going to be 53 in just 2 months. You're down to 80 nanog per milliliter. That is a 60% reduction, folks. Think about this. Your body knows how to regenerate. It doesn't need a class. It has the blueprint. It has the machinery. It knows what the hell it's doing. it. What it's losing is the signal. What do you think that signal is? It's GHKCU. It's floating around in your plasma and your urine and your spit, your saliva, and it's released when tissue gets damaged. It's part of your body's emergency response team. It's the emergency, it's the RS, right? The emergency response system. And here's the kick in the teeth. It's directly connected to your DNA expression. Yours. If that doesn't make you go, "Holy crap, you need to understand bio biology and biochemistry and neurology a little more and understand genetics because this is so phenomenal that it is anchored to your DNA. Think of what they're trying to do with DNA on the negative side. This does it on the positive." So 2010, there's a study by Hong and all of the colleagues showed that GHKCU literally resets gene expression. Not one or 10, over 4,000 genes. It turns back the biological clock on the genes that have gone dormant. This is what they found. The dormant with age, right? And then it shut down all the genes that were causing chaos in your system. Listen, how about we go a little deeper? Why? Talk about why you're tired and why your brain feels foggy and why your skin looks like a melted candle and why you can't recover like you used to when you were 19 years old. Three letters A T P adenazine triphosphate. It is the energy currency. It's the funding system of life. Every single thing your body does, jumping, driving, reading, playing video games, going on your phone, moving, healing, detox, breathing, heartbeat, requires ATP. And you make approximately your entire body weight in ATP every single day. Nobody tells you this stuff. and wear your mitochondria, those tiny little nuclear reactors that everybody talks about and nobody understands on social media. They're just spewing out chat information. So, here's what actually happens. You eat your meal and then that meal gets broken down into these things called electrons. And those electrons enter the ETC, the electron transport chain inside of your mitochondria. It's this series of protein or complexes. Basically, it's this series of protein complexes 1 2 3 and four I really sequential wild right and it passes electrons down the line with this efficiency increase right it's geometric and complex 4 cytochrome C oxidase is the end point the final step and this is where oxygen gets reduced to water and where the majority of your ATP actually gets produced and it's also the rate limiting step it's where everything can jam up and screw up your entire energy system. And guess what complex 4 requires in order to function? Yeah, I'll help you. Copper, it's a rhetorical question. You guys are all yelling at the car or phone or wherever you're watching. Not just needs it, by the way. It's built from it. The active site of cytochrome C oxidase contains copper ions that are absolutely essential for electron transfer. And here's where GHKCU becomes this gamecher. 2008 study by Picart showed that GHKCU doesn't just deliver copper to cells. No, no, it delivers it specifically to the mitochondria. That's like having a VIP pass straight into the ATP factory. It's like being able to go to the bank and tell them how much you want, no matter what your account has, because whatever you tell them, they're just going to make for you. That's how this works. So, when you That's how badass this is. So, when you have adequate copper at complex 4, your ETC runs very efficiently. When you don't, everything backs up. You get electron leakage, free radical production, mitochondrial dysfunction, and the big game changer that trashes everything, cellular energy crisis, which what is that? Biological failure three. If you're paying attention to me at all and you've ever listened to anything, three biological failures, systemic inflammation one, insulin resistance two, ATP shortage three. That's where this is going. This is failure three. Well, it gets better. 2012 demonstrated it increases expression of something called PGC1 alpha, which is the master regulator of making brand new shiny mitochondria. But it's not just making your mitochondria work better. It's think about this. It's not just doing that. It's not fixing the mitochondria themselves. It's also making more of them and more badass versions of them. More mitochondria, more ATP production, more cellular energy, better everything. Here's where people get this catastrophically wrong. They think, "GHKCU, that's going to fix my skin. My skin has never looked better. It's so special. It's good for my wrinkles and my No, that's Oh, it's so wrong. It makes me angry and hurt at the same time. That's like saying, and I said this in my Instagram, that's like saying oxygen is for breathing. That's it. And ignoring the fact that it powers every single other thing in your muscles, brain, heart, neurological function, you name it. Every other cell in your body. It's not just for breathing, homie. GHKCU has receptors in virtually every single tissue type in your body. And why? because it's a fundamental signaling molecule for tissue repair and regeneration. So, let me break down what this does at a cellular level. Just so you can understand this because I told you you if you can understand this, man, you're going to go far. It modulates the extracellular matrix, which is the it's the scaffolding that holds all your tissues together. 2004 by McCart showed it stimulates collagen synthesis, elastin production, glycosaminoglycan formation. That's not just skin people. that is organs and connective tissue and blood vessels and every single piece of tissue that you've got in your body. It regulates metaloprotinases. These are the enzymes. This is important to understand. These are the enzymes that they break down damaged tissue. You're always damaging tissue. So you need this to work. But the problem is too much and you get tissue destruction. So COPD, chronic wounds that never heal, arthritis, even immune problems, too little and you get a bunch of dead tissue accumulation also bad. So, GHKCU balances this perfectly. Upregulates them when they're needed, when the tissue needs remodeling, and downregulates them when you need more stability, right? It controls the antiproteasis. Specifically, follow me. It increases tissue inhibitors of metal proteinasis. They're called tims, tips. This creates the perfect balance between breakdown and buildup. Still, one peptide. It activates stem cells. How about this one? 2015 study showed GHKCU increases the mobilization and activity of adult stem cells. No cord cells or anything like that. Adult stem cells. This is your body's come in and fix it from MIT crew. It's not cosmetic, you guys. It's not even close. And that's what all of you soccer moms, you know what? I'm tired of you guys. I don't care how many likes you got, how many followers you have, how many followers you have. I don't care. You sound like a coconut because you come out and you try and sound all intelligent, but you don't know what you're talking about and you're pushing your product because you have an affiliate code or you decided to invent your own peptide company and steal all my stuff and then tell everybody how smart you are. Why is it my face on your video that? Listen, and for all of you guys stealing my [ __ ] how about you just stop stealing my stuff or you actually just give me credit for it? Because I'm a pretty unique-l lookinging individual. I'm a bald bearded dude that looks like this and I'm grumpy and I'm gritty and I'm the only doctor that's out here doing this all for free and I'm not asking you for a damn thing. You want to join the black card? Here, I'll help you out. You want to join the black card? You send an email to Amber or Rona to apply unlockthecard.com and go, I'd like to join. She will send you the wire transfer information. There is no other variation of this. And you will give her $10,000 and it's going up to 25,000. I'm still You're lucky I'm in a good mood and just going I'm going to just let it ride at 10K for a little bit longer because honestly you shouldn't. It should be it should be $100,000 a year. I have and I have people in my group that are going it's the best money I've ever spent. I would have paid 10 times this. Do you know why? Because what I do works cuz I bleed for you guys. Cuz my audience is good and is really good. My black card people are family. Family. So if you want to do that's how you do it. I will solve your [ __ ] It's that simple. I am a doctor that cusses but I promise you this. Nobody knows what I do because or what I know because I'm out here bleeding for you guys. I make sure I know it all because I constantly read and research because I want you guys to have the best. I want you to have all the information to make an informed decision and an executive decision to do what's right for your physiology or biology, not for what's not what's right be for some soccer mom with her big boobs hanging out injecting peptides on Instagram like some child or someone with an affiliate code bragging about their PhD and they got purple hair. I don't care. I'm here to give you information. And if you keep getting in my comments, understand the world is built, I said it today in my Instagram, the world is built on victimization and tearing others down. And you wonder why your life sucks a bag of rocks because you're propagating it cuz you're doing it. You get into my comments, you give me a thumbs down, you give some hate comments. What are you, five? You know what adults do? They just move on. Children get in and start being and clamoring and arguing. You can argue. It doesn't change the fact that you're still wrong. I'm here to help. If you're doing anything other than saying thank you, pardon my language, but [ __ ] off because I'm not doing anything out here other than giving for free bleeding for my audience, which is you guys. So, the proper words you're looking for probably thank you. Just saying. Listen, let me explain how GHKCU actually works. The mechanism that nobody else explains that makes everything else possible. When GHKCU enters the body, here's what happens. Couple of steps. Four. Can probably break it down into five, but four. Cellular entry. The copper peptide complex binds to very specific receptors on the cell membranes. The main one, low density lipoprotein receptor related protein 1, LRP1. I didn't say any of that in my Instagram because it just takes too much time. And people always say, "What does it stand for?" That's you're going to look it up. This, by the way, just so you know how cool. This is the same receptor that comes in and mops up all the damaged proteins and facilitates cellular signaling. kind of important. Step two, intracellular TR A intracellular signaling. So once inside the GHKCU activates multiple signaling pathways, so many map K, right? Midagen activated protein kynise, the TGF beta path. It's so many and and listen, these aren't just random abbreviations that sound cool. It's not a bunch of acronyms. These are the master controls for cell survival, proliferation, differentiation, all of the things that are functioning in your body. Just so you know, right now as you're listening to this, getting irritated, triggered, and wanting to get into my comments. Step three is the nuclear signaling, not nuclear, nuclear. And here's the wild part about this entire thing. GHKCU actually gets into the nucleus of the cell. 2014 study by Campbell showed it binds directly to your DNA. It's talking to your genes, man. Do you? I don't know if you really get it. Maybe you don't geek out on this as much as I do, but that's a big friaking deal cuz it's changing what your cells do at a genetic level. Drugs don't do that. Step four, regulation of those genes. So, all of those 4,000 genes that I always talk about, 4,000 plus, here's what it's doing. upregulating genes for collagen, structural proteins, elastin, upregulating antioxidant genes like glutathione or superoxide dismutase, pretty important one downregulating inflammatory genes. Let's say TNF alpha, IL6, NFCappa B, upregulating genes for angioenesis, the new blood vessel formation. Remember I talked about that even with TB500 or BPC157. Upregulating nerve growth factors important when it comes to talking about your brain or how your brain talks to the rest of your body. It's literally reprogramming your cells to function like the younger version of themselves. It's not changing. It's making it's like the fountain of youth. That's easy, great. It's like the holy grail. So, GHKCU is effective because it works on multiple levels at the same time. At the mitochondrial level, it's busy improving ATP production, cytochrome oxidase. At the cellular level, it's activating all the repair mechanisms. At the systemic level, it's reducing all the inflammatory responses. At your tissue level, it's remodeling all your structure. At the genetic level, which is where it runs its prime, it's resetting expression patterns. This is the most gangster peptide ever. The more I talk about it, the more I just want to go inside and take copper. 2010, Pickard and Margolina actually showed this is how wild it is. Anti, this is what it does. Anti-inflammatory effects better than cortisone, but with none of the side effects. antioxidant increasing I already said this superoxide dismutase and catalase by the way anti-cancer because it suppresses metastatic genes wound healing because it coordinates 47 different repair genes one single molecule quadrillion targets systemwide effects that's why it works you guys oh buckle up I'm just warming up listen here's why it's so effective it's Listen drugs fail because and I'm not saying drugs aren't necessary when they're saving a life. They're not necessary to keep you alive and healthy and strong. They're necessary for managed decline and massive profits. Drugs fail because they target one thing, one receptor, one pathway, one protein. The body doesn't work like that. The body is a system, a symbiotic system that does things as a relationship. GHKCU is effective because it works on multiple levels at the same time. Mitochondrial level, I talked about this, right? ATP. It does all of this stuff that it I could run through these levels line by line and some of you guys are going to go, "Yeah, but what does it do for my skin?" It's reducing all the things I talked to your inflammation. It's mitigating injury. It's resetting a gene expression. It's activating all the repairs that you don't even need to think about. They're just happening because they're doing them. How many times have you had to think about fibbrinogen, vitamin K? You haven't. Clotting factor. Your body does that. What do you think is solving that problem? Let me get granular because this is where all the fun happens. Your electron transport chain has five complexes. 1 2 3 four. And then the last one that everybody goes, "No, that's not it." Yes, it is. ATP synthes. It's the turbine that turns out giant bags of adenazine triphosphate. So you can do all the things that you do and some of the dumb things that you wish you didn't do. Here's the process. Complex one, NADH dehydrogenase. It takes electrons from NADH and it pumps protons. Complex two, suxenate dehydrogenase takes electrons from FADH2. Complex three, cytochrome BC1, continues electron transfer, pumps more protons. You see what's happening? Creating a proton gradient. Complex 4, cytochrome C oxidase. The copper dependent complex, ATP synthes step uses that proton gradient to make, you ready? Drum roll. ATP baby. ETP complex 4, I called it before, is the bottleneck. It's where 90% of the oxygen, the stuff that we just breathe, this is why I was making fun of it, gets consumed. It's where the final electron transfer happens. And it has two copper centers, UAC, these, right? Copper A, copper B. These copper ions undergo something called redux cycling. They accept electrons and donate them to oxygen, reducing it to aqua, water. But without adequate copper, this process slows down to a sloth pace. Electrons back up and you get ROS's, reactive oxygen species. This is very bad. This is where mitochondrial damage comes in. Which is why chasing it with SS doesn't solve the problem. Which is why I keep telling people, but this is how you tell the Insta Bros. They go in the soccer mom experts and the Insta experts that really don't understand physiology or biology very well. They just have a PhD on their wall that goes, "Look how smart I am." But none of that matters because if you don't understand this, then people are slamming MOT C and SS31 and NAD+ and all of this stuff without understanding that there still could be a backup in the ETC. You can solve all the mitochondrial problems you want. If you don't have the product there to do the job, you can take as much NAD+ as you want. You can smash the SS31 like an imbecile and take it before M C because you just don't pay attention to how it really works. You can do all of that. You're still going to run into problems. This is why I'm here giving you this information. Does I really hope this makes sense. 2011 they showed copper deficiency. Listen, this is what like you guys got to hear this leads directly to reduced ATP production about 40% reduction. Increased oxidative stress, mitochondrial DNA damage, cellular senence, little zombies that just puke out biochemical terrorists, what I call them, right? Just dump out cytoines and wreck your system. GHKC solves this. Here's how. It delivers bioavailable copper directly to the mitochondria. It protects the mitochondrial membranes cardipin from oxidative damage. It upregulates mitochondrial biogenesis genes PGC1 alpha right improves overall electron transport chain efficiency. And the result, listen to this, 2009 showed GHKCU treatment alone increased cellular ATP levels. Oh wait, cuz you guys got to hear this number. 67% baby. 67%. 67. All I feel like saying is 1.21 gigawatts. 1.21 gigawatts. Tom, where am I going to find that kind of power? If you don't know, you don't know. What the hell's a jigawatt, right? It's not incremental, you guys. I'm just in that mood today. So, buckle up. It's fun for me. That is transformational. Listen, you know what I talk about, right? My three biological failures. I'm going to hit them anyway. Just hit it and quit it. Every chronic disease, diabetes, cancer, heart disease, Alzheimer's, autoimmunity, comes down to three core failures every single time. Systemic inflammation, insulin resistance, ATP shortage. Let me explain how GHKCU addresses all three. Where's my Nobel Prize? Because you know what? I solved disease, but nobody wants to listen. Do you know why? Because what I solved it with doesn't make them trillions of dollars and doesn't screw up your health for life and make you anchored to the pharmaceutical company. It lets you have the freedom to go do all the things you want. That's what I want for you. So I don't know what to tell you if you keep getting in my comments and dropping hate. You're a dick cuz I'm not asking you for anything. You guys will run out brag on Fizer. Not a single life saved all the years it's been around. Got it. But good old Dr. Trevor Bogmire here and you guys just lose your mind. He's going against the Reddit forum. Shame. Listen, sometimes I just shake my head. Look at systemic inflam. I'm going to go through all three, so buckle up. Systemic inflammation. Chronic inflammation is caused by disregulated immune response and persistent activation of NFCappa B, which is that master inflammatory transcription factor. 2015 study park showed GHKCU suppresses NFCappa B activation 70%. Reduces IL6 production by 60%. Decreases TNF alpha by 55%. reduces C reactive protein levels by 49%. Whoa. You guys should just be going, "Holy crap, where do I get the copper?" rubbing pennies on your nipples. I have no idea. Something just Why don't you just buy a vial of copper? That's what I probably say that and they're going to be like, "You're pushing drugs." How many of you guys get pinched on social media? Because it's you're promoting drugs. And I'm like, "A drug? I want to go to war for that. Peptides aren't drugs. They're signals." You'd think a drug company would know that. Listen, here's what's brilliant. It doesn't suppress your immune system, right? GHKCU it modulates it showed it actually this is the study showed it actually enhances immune function when it's needed fighting infections while reducing the autoimmune response which means it keeps you from attacking your own stuff look at the insulin resistance insulin resistance happens when cells stop responding to insulin right they go deaf I can't hear you right it's the monkey holding their ears why chronic inflammation mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress this it's this is basic biochemistry gokcu attacks this from multiple angles Reduces inflammatory cytoines that block insulin receptors. Improves mitochondrial function which gives better glucose metabolism which is required right for energy. Activates AMPK the metabolic master switch. We talk about Matzi and all that stuff right metformin metformin is garbage. It doesn't do it at all. Not the way you think. And it reduces oxidative stress that damages insulin signaling. 2016 study on metabolic syndrome showed GHKCU improved insulin sensitivity markers by 34%. These numbers are so massive. Look at the ATP shortage. We already covered this earlier in the podcast or whatever you want to call this the YouTube video. GHKCU increases ATP production, right? It does this like this. Copper delivery through you should know this by now to complex 4 cytochrome oxidize right cytochrome C oxidase mitochondrial biogenesis PGC1 alpha protection from all the oxidative damage improved electron transport efficiency. fix these three things and you fix the root cause of every single I will not say virtually I will not say some or most or almost every single chronic disease and here's why because when your system is hostile to pathology gets the hell out of dodge listen to me this is important by the way here's I just want to touch on this because here's something that nobody talks about GHQCU has a profound effect on mass cell stabilization and people are very reactive now right mass cells are your body's alarm system. They release histamine causing inflammation and redness, itching, and swelling. When they're disregulated, you get chronic allergies, dermatitis, rosacea, along with the B2 deficiency, right, for the mites on the face and autoimmune skin condition, psoriasis, eczema. 2014, Fininkley, GHKCU, this is what he showed. Stabilizes mass cell meases histamine release by 47%, which means that's basically half. decreases granulation which is the explosive release of inflammatory mediators that cause all these frigin problems and modulates the production of inflammatory prostaglandins and the mechanism GHKCU increases the production of anexin A1 it's a protein listen to me it's a protein that stabilizes cell membranes and has savage anti-inflammatory effects this is why people with sensitive reactive skin often see dramatic is the expression improvements with GHKCU but it's not a skin peptide. It's not. That's why I'm saying just because it solves the problem there, it's not what it's doing. You're not just treating symptoms. You're stabilizing the cells that cause the hyper reaction. Which is why all you dermatologists spraying things, covering things, wiping them on. You estheticians poking holes in people like friends of mine, my buddy Mike Luca and his poor beautiful wife was wrecked by an aesthetician. Thank God they are one-on-one with me because he sent me a message and we solved the problem in 3 days. Why? Because I love them both and because I give a crap and their esthetician said the reactions that she had were normal. It was, if I could be wrong, 2 months. Brutal reactions. Looks like somebody beat the hell out of her. We fix the problem in 3 days because I care. You've seen him comment on my posts. He's a good dude. Listen, if your doctor doesn't care about you enough to care about you, if you get what that means, he cares about himself and his wallet or whether or not he gets to keep his license. I don't give a crap about a license. I don't give a crap if you guys are like, "This guy lost his license." Yeah. For a business that wasn't even related and because I just didn't bother fighting. I just don't care because you know what? Now there is no thumb on my head. I can give a big FU to anyone telling me what I can and can't talk about. I'm okay with it. They're just still there. And I'm getting results that make everybody else look like a kid that's never sat in a classroom or understood a damn thing about human biology in their life. Listen, here's where it gets wild. GHKCU crosses the bloodb brain barrier. This should blow your mind. 2017 study by Jang showed it. Increases NGF, nerve growth factor by 300%. Oh, I know you weren't expecting that mic drop. Stimulates brain derived neurotrphic factor, BDNF, right? Cax, cerebral, all of the dhexa a little bit, not nearly as well as C. Cax is killer. If I had to choose, I would I'd take that before cerebral. I would take cerebral for certain things, but CAX is not a spray either. Stop sticking the stuff in your nose. It doesn't work. Promotes neurogenesis, which is the creation of new neurons. Reduces neuroinflammation. Think Alzheimer's, dementia, Parkinson's. Clears beta amalloid plaques. Hallmark tombstone of Alzheimer's. Look at strokes. GHKCU reduced brain damage in a stroke. In a stroke, man. reduced brain damage by 55%, improved functional recovery by 70%. You better be paying attention. I'll even tell you why. Because nerve regeneration requires four things. Requires adequate energy, ATP, requires reduced inflammation, requires growth factory signaling, and it demands stem cell activation. And GHKCU provides all four, baby. Also increases myelin production. Think multiple sclerosis. It's the protective sheath, right? made by oligodendrittes around the nerves. 2013 study showed it upregulates genes for olodendrite differentiation and causes them to crank out that coating on that wire. This isn't theoretical, you guys. This is documented nerve regeneration. Look at hair loss, right? And this is the best androgenic alopecia pattern baldness. I'm not going to say male because it's weird when they go male pattern baldness. I get contacted by women going, "How do you solve the hair loss problem?" Don't just run out and buy GHKCU and think that's the answer. There's more to it than that. But here's why it happens. DHT sensitivity, right? Dihydrotestosterone, if you need to know what it is, inflammation around the hair follicles, reduced blood flow to the scalp and follicle miniaturization. I'm bald. I don't care. But GHQCU addresses every single mechanism of the problem. 7 study by PIO showed blocks five alpha reductase, which is the enzyme that makes DHT, by 80%. Holy snapping crap, Batman, that's a lot. Increases follicle size by 67%. Extends the growth phase, the antigen of hair. Increases blood vessel formation in the scalp. 2015 clinical trials showed that after 12 weeks, 12 weeks, 75% of participants had increased hair density. Hair thickness increased an average of 30%. Scalp inflammation decreased significantly to almost in like unnoticeable. The mechanism here, buckle up. I'll give you this, too. GHKC, I told you it's a master class, baby. Hang on to this roller coaster. Stimulates follical stem cells to enter the growth phase. Increases VEGF, vascular endothelial growth factor. Same thing as BPC for better blood supply. Reduces inflammatory cytoines that damage the follicles. And provides copper for melanin production, which is the hair pigmentation. Otherwise, you have clear, weird hairs. It's actual follicle regeneration, not just preventing further loss. That doesn't help me. No, I'll touch on the skin because you soccer moms and Insta bros are like, "My skin's never been better." But this is where GHKCU first got all its attention anyway. But even here, you guys don't understand the depth. 2005 study by Abdul Ghani showed GHKCU, real name by the way. It's like spaghettification, real word, okay? Increases collagen production by 70%, increases collagen 7, which anchors the epidermis to the dermis. Very important. increases elastin production, increases hyaluronic acid synthesis, increases fibroblast proliferation, and here's what matters even more. I'll wait cuz you guys probably want to write this down. Look at acne. Reduces bacterial colonization. You know what they give you when I was a kid? Tetracycling. They would give you an antibiotic and when you took it off, your face looked like somebody hit you with a scatter gut because nothing worked. Nothing worked. The problem isn't the bacteria, it's what your body's doing with the bacteria. Just to I know big shocker but you guys are covered in bacteria. I know gross. They're all crawling all over you. They need to be there. It's keeping you alive. Okay. But it for acne, it reduces bacterial colonization. It decreases the sebum oxid oxidation and it reduces the inflammatory response. Check. Check. Look at rosacea. This isn't the beall endall. Just so you know before you run out and think this is it. There's more to it. So if you have rosacea, by the way, precursor to SLE, right? systemic lupus arithmettosis. You need to understand there's a lot more going on with parasites, infection, there's a gut problem, leaky gut for sure. Your lymphatic system is train wreck. You've got mites, B2 deficiency. There's a lot. Probably should get a stool sample. There's a lot of things going on, right? But for rosacea, this stabilizes the mass cells, reduces vascular inflammation, and strengthens the capillary walls. Look at for photoagging, right? Sun repairs the UV damage to DNA, increases DNA repair enzymes, and rebuilds the durable structure. Looking for hyperpigmentation modulates mel I could do this all day. Melanin production reduces post-inflammatory pigmentation. 2012 study showed 65% reduction in fine lines. You guys keep on getting your Botox though, baby. If you understood how deadly Botox is, you would never stick that in your face. Just so you know. Like dead dead. Not like I don't feel well. Like I'm talking dead. Look it up. Just look at the botulinam toxin. Don't take my word for it. Don't listen to anything I say. Look it up for yourself. 2012, man. 65% reduction in fine lines after 12 weeks. That's why I look so young, baby. I look old as hell. 45% improvement in skin firmness. It's cuz I don't take GHKCU for my skin. 30% reduction in hyperpigmentation. 50% improvement in skin barrier function, which is its primary function. Cardiovascular system. We could hit that too. Cardiovascular diseases, endothelial dysfunction, atherosclerosis, and inflammation. Check those three boxes. That's what it is. GHKCU tackles every single one of them. 2010 study pard showed it stimulates endothelial cell migration and proliferation increases NO nitric oxide production vaso dilation right remember INOS enos right these things are very important if you remember them reduces atheroscllerotic plaque by 60% protects the heart muscle from eskeemic damage reduces fibrosis after a heart attack imagine if you paired this up with TB500 which has been proven to reverse myocardial fibrosis after an MIDI in fortune and no doctors are going, "You should try that." They're like, "No, let's give you all this medication and maybe do open heart surgery. You guys got to take control of your health." Man, it just makes me nuts when I think about it. You guys got to take control of your health. Look at animal models of heart attack. They prove this. Just there's human trials, but look at the animal models because they can go harder into the paint on this. Pre-treatment with GHKCU reduced inffort size by 45%. Which means if there's a heart attack on the horizon, it reduced it by half the damage. Post treatment improved cardiac function 55%. which means everything. We're talking cardiac function, signal conduction, ejection fraction, name it. It increases angioenesis, new blood vessel formation, right in all the damaged tissue. And the mechanism, watch. Activates VEGF and FGF, fibroblast growth factor because I don't talk about that one too much for vessel formation. Reduces inflammatory damage to vessel walls. Improves endothelial function through increased ATP. Right? Cytochrome C oxidase rate limiting step. We're back to that step. You see how this is all connected. stimulates cardiac stem cells, reduces pathological fibrosis while promoting healthy tissue remodeling. We could do this all day. How about renal problems? Kidney nephropection. This is like a breakthrough that they're never telling anybody about. Kidney disease is a one-way street in conventional medicine. Once nephrons die, gone, baby. Wrong. Except GHKCU is rewriting that entire freaking story. 2011. It is 2026, you guys. That is 15 [ __ ] years ago. Pardon my language cuz it pisses me off. aka showed it reduces kidney fibrosis by 65% decreases. Just so you know, your kidneys aren't just filtering your blood. They have something called the ren and angotensin pathway. It works with your heart. So there's so much more going on than just your kidneys and thinking that the glamuli are just filtering your blood. They do so much more. This is why like I nerd out on this stuff cuz it's so fun. But if you understand biology to the level that some of you guys understand your car, you guys would be insanely healthy. You guys would never put 99% of the stuff that you do in your body. You never would. cuz you won't do it to your car. But you can buy another car. You can't buy another one of these, baby. Just telling you, man. Kidney fibrosis reduction by 65%. I can't even say that out loud without getting a big giant grin on my face. Decreases the inflammatory markers in kidney disease, kidney tissues. Protects against diabetic neurop or nephropathy. Yeah, a lot of type 2 diabetics out there beating the crap out of their kidneys, huh? Might want to think about GHKCU for that kangaroo, huh? Reduces protein in urine. Tenora, which is a marker, if you didn't know, I'll tell you. It's a marker of kidney damage. 2013 study on kidney fibrosis proved GHKCU treatment reversed already established fibrosis but it's a one-way street inhibits TGF beta 1 induced fibroblast activation I was going to get into no point it promoted matrix metalloproteinise activity to break down remember what I told you too much too little right you want it to be breaking down the damaged tissue which it's doing it's breaking down the fibrosis the scar tissue kidney function improved by astounding measurable filtration ation rates. You want your kidneys to work, people. Like, I stress out about my sister-in-law sometimes cuz she's only got one. So, I worry about Autumn, right? Just want to make sure she's okay. But like, I I understand how important they are. In diabetic kidney disease, 70% reduction in meangial expansion, 55% reduction in basement membrane thickening, significant preservation of ptoy, the filtering cell function. You guys, this is actual kidney tissue regen. Look at wound healing. Wound healing. stuff's gangster. This is where GHKCU has the most clinical evidence ever. 70 studies on wound healing alone that you can find just looking them up on Google. 2008 meta analysis showed GHKCU accelerates wound closure by 50%. So if it takes you a week, it takes you three and a half days. Improves wound quality, less scarring is what that means. Reduces infection rates. I'm okay with that. Enhances diabetic wound healing because when you're diabetic, you don't heal at all. You take forever. The wound healing process requires very perfect orchestration. I don't know if you understand that, but to stitch that all together is not something that happens like on a video game. It is perfect. So, it's got these phases. I'll explain them. So, there's the inflammatory phase. GHKCU modulates the inflammation. You have to do this first. It's got to clear the debris, not to not so much to cause damage, right? So, you have to understand this part because there's a time and a place for inflammation. Proliferative phase, GHKCU stimulates fibroblast proliferation, collagen synthesis, and angioenesis, blood flows, and getting everything ready to start. It's bringing in the supply trucks to start doing the repairs. Remodeling phase GHKCU balances MMP tim which I talked about before for optimal scar formation so you don't get this haphazard disaster of a scar. You get a nice uniform piece of tissue. 2014 trial on diabetic foot ulcers. Comments. Some of you guys listening are like, I need to hear this. You should pay attention. 88% complete healing with GHKCU treatment. Oh, wait. Let that land. 34% complete healing with standard care. I'm going to drink some coffee while you guys ruminate on that. This is a game changer for your life. Average healing time 6.2 weeks versus 11.4 weeks. Come on. You guys got to be hearing this and going nuts. These aren't marginal improvements. This is transformational wound care. This is for your life. You can't stay on this stuff forever. Just so you know, cuz I know you guys are like, why wouldn't I be on this forever then? It's called the adaptation principle. Listen to me. Here's the reality that nobody really wants to hear. Your body adapts to everything, no matter what it is, every single thing that's there. When you provide constra constant external signals, I have to tell you this because if I tell you the good, I got to tell you the bad. Your body downregulates its own production and receptor sensitivity. It's called homeostatic adaptation. This is important. 16 studies showed that continuous GHKCU exposure led to receptor downregulation after about 12 weeks decreased response at the same dose. Okay, so now we're losing efficacy of this reduced gene expression changes. So the solution is very simple. Just cycle it 12 weeks on, four weeks off, repeat for your kangaroo. Hypothetically, what this allows is for receptors to turn back on, sensitivity to reset, your body to integrate all the changes that you made because of taking the GHKCU, natural GHKCU production to resume, and the prevention of some nasty dependency that whether you like it or not will happen during the off cycle. Your body maintains all of the improvements. New mitochondria, rebuild tissue, they all stay while resetting the sensitivity for the next round that you're about to do. baby. Couple of people that shouldn't be taking copper, by the way. And I don't really want to. It's like I almost I'm hesitant to talk about this because some people are going to go and take weird blood tests forever. Stop getting all these genetic tests. Stop it. You guys are wasting your time. You survived without them and all of a sudden now everybody needs them. No, you don't. GHKCU, just stay with me a little bit longer. It's not for everybody. Here's who should avoid it. Pregnant. Going to be pregnant. Breastfeeding women. Are you nuts? You are their one chance. You are that baby's one chance. I don't care how miserable you are. You suck it up for 9 months. Do you know why? Because I watched my wife suffer like a savage for our daughter and our son. And our son and our daughter are freaking amazing. I have so much respect for Brandy. She was miserable. I did anything I could. I rubbed her feet. I rubbed her belly. I propped up. I rubbed her back. I did anything I could. I got it. I went and bought it. I built it. I created. I didn't care. Whatever she needed, I was like, "Done. I'll go get it." because I wanted to do everything I could just to make sure I offset anything that was making her feel bad. But she never took a single pill. Not by my I didn't ask. I support whatever my wife does. She is my best friend. But I had her back the whole way. But don't you dare introduce something into your body and just call the doctors say it's safe. These are the same doctors that did the C19. Just hang on that. Wilson's disease. Okay, this is a genetic copper accumulation disorder. Adding more copper is like the last thing that you need. People with hemocromattosis, that's a big one. Hemocchromattosis is iron. Too much iron overload. Copper metabolism definitely affected and then putting it in your children when they're 10 years old. No. Here's where all these biohackers and insta bros get this wrong. And I'm sure this is going to get all the comments in my YouTube getting mad going, "I do this. They sell peptides. They sell blends. Clo glow, all the stuff." I don't care. You should be grateful that I'm out here instead of an [ __ ] Just to be very transparent. These Insta Bros and these peptide companies, nothing. If you go, "Don't you sell the Wolverine stack or the glow or the glow?" All separate, baby. Bet your butt I do. But they're all separate. They're not in the same vial. That's for idiots. These companies and these insta bros and these soccer moms stack everything together going more is better. Peptides are signaling molecules. They trigger specific cellular responses through very specific receptors. When you take multiple peptides simultaneously, receptor competition. They compete for the same binding site. Conflicting signals. One says grow, the other says don't grow. One says repair. One says don't repair. One says clean up. Everyone says break down like this is the problem. Overwhelmed cellular machinery. You get cross talk, unpredictable interactions. I could do this all day. It's so nuts. You guys would never when I had some knucklehead, you know, I watched him go, I mix all my peptides together. Some instab bro that sells peptides. I'll just tell you that. Dude never wears a shirt. And the point is, he goes, "Research, they mix them together all the time. Are you out of your mind? That is how you know somebody's never done research." How how can you control the variables when you mix them together? Here's your sign. You can't. The end. Listen, specifically with GHKCU, it chilates copper, which will interact with any other metal binding peptide. I went through this already, BPC, KPB, TB. No modulates gene expression very broadly. 4,000 plus, remember, which will interfere with peptides targeting specific pathways. Also, no, there's it's not worth the risk. Like, what? You just can't stick yourself again? Suck it up. It's not meant to be to callous. Just suck it up. If you're going to take a peptide, suck it up. I just don't have the time. then don't you don't have the time for being healthy or to do things the right way. So you just want to feel good about doing it but don't want to reap any of the benefits. Got it? It affects growth factor signaling by the way overlaps with a ton of peptides. Here's the best practice hypothetically for your kangaroo. I'll even tell normally I don't even do this but GHKCU in the morning with food because it can cause gastric upset if you're getting an upset stomach. That's why by the way take it with food. I'm not saying oral. Eat something wait 20 30 minutes then take it. Take all your other stuff. I used to say a half hour. I'm talking 4 hours, 6 hours. Take the rest of them at noon. Don't stack multiple growth factor peptides with GHKCU ever. Give your peptides space to work through the signaling cascade you just caused. Excuse me. If you guys saw what I ate before this, you'd be like, "Oh god, that's going to meet up in your stomach and not get along." It's not. Just so you know. Still out here because I care about you guys. So, listen. How about I land this plane? I'll put a bow on it. Let me bring it home. Whatever the hell it is people say when they do this. You have in your body right now a molecule that resets 4,000 genes to young expression patterns younger than wherever the hell you are. If they're if you're 80, they're going to 20. If you're 40, they're going to 20. That's how this works. This the molecule will increase your adenazine triphosphate production by 67%. It'll reduce systemic inflammation at the genetic level. It'll regenerate nerves, skin, blood vessels, kidney, heart tissue, lungs, you name it. Stabilize immune responses. Promote stem stem cell activation. It's proven safe in 70 plus clinical studies. Stop looking for reasons to trust the FDA. No. This molecule declines 60% between ages 20 and 60. Remember what I said at the beginning. This decline, just so you know. Do the math because the math is mathing, baby, correlates perfectly with the rise of chronic disease, the decline of healing capacity, the onset of aging symptoms, and the reduction in cellular energy. We're not talking about treating symptoms. We're not talking about manage decline or managing diseases. We're talking about addressing the root freaking cause of cellular aging. The loss of regenerative signaling that you have in you. It's a signal problem, not a regeneration problem. The machinery is still there. The blueprint's still there. It just doesn't have something tapping the button. Every pharmaceutical drug on the market works by blocking something. All of them. Block this enzyme. Block that receptor. Block this pathway. GHKC works by activating your body's own repair system. You're born with it. That's why when you're 14 years old, you could probably stab yourself and watch it heal. It doesn't block COX 2 like NSAIDs. It reduces the inflammatory signals that activate COX 2 in the first place. Doesn't force blood vessels to dilate like nitrates. It improves endothelial function so vessels dilate naturally. Doesn't suppress your immune system like corticosteroids. It mod it modulates it to function the proper way. This is the difference between symptom management. I got to get this out because it's driving me nuts. difference between symptom management and systemic restoration. And here is the big kick in the face. This isn't theoretical at all. This isn't some hopeful, God, I hope this Insta guy is right. I'm not even on Instagram. I'm on YouTube right now and I am a doctor for real. It's I am right. Where's my Nobel Prize? This isn't preliminary peer-reviewed literature spanning five decades, 73 cart original discovery, man. Gene expression studies in 2010 to the clinical trials running today in 2026. This evidence isn't emerging, you guys. This evidence has emerged, baby. It's not about does GHKCU work for your skin or for your wrinkles. The question should be, why the hell isn't the standard care for every single human being on the planet after 30, even younger if there's a problem? The answer to that question, just so you know, reveals everything that's wrong with modern medicine. There's no patent. There's no billion-dollar pharmaceutical company pushing it. There's no insurance billing code, no ICD10 code worth tens of thousands, hundreds of thousands of dollars. It is a naturally occurring molecule that costs pennies to produce. So, it gets ignored and dismissed and brushed off and relegated to the cosmetic category. The last thing this is cosmetic. I don't know. This is a pretty good master class. I think you should know better by now. You understand that this tripeptide copper complex is fundamentally resetting cellular function at the mitochondrial, genetic, and systemic levels. You understand that it addresses my three biological failures that underline every single chronic disease. You understand that it's not choosing between your brain or your skin or your lungs or your heart. It's regenerating every freaking one of them simultaneously because it's working at a systemic level. You understand that your body already knows how to heal. It just needs the damn signal. And GHKCU is the signal. So here, I'll help you out. Here's what you do with all of this information that I just dropped on you. Holy crap. 56 minutes in. All of this stuff. You don't just optimize your skin. You don't biohack your performance because some soccer mom or Instaex expert bro decides to tell you, "You should take my blend. It's way better." You fundamentally reset your biological age by restoring the regenerative signaling that declines with time, with years. You cycle it intelligently. You respect the biology. You give your body the tools that it's been losing year by year, decade by decade. And you watch what happens when you give a 50year-old body the cellular signals of a 20-year-old. Bring it, baby. The energy returns. The inflammation subsides and the healing accelerates. The fog lifts. You become a gangster juggernaut. That's how this works. Not because you found some magic pill that some in bro sold you in a bottle, but because you understand the biology and gave your body what it was designed to use in the first place given to you by God. That is not biohacking. That is called biological intelligence. Baby, I hope you got something out of this. I got to go. Ever miss.
