# Removing Parasites and Killing Cancer - Unbreakable Podcast 289

*Dr Trevor Bachmeyer*

## Transcript

Cup of coffee. Noon. Somebody asked me what I do for a living. I've said this before. I just tell people I'm a fireman because I spend my entire day pissing on flyers. If you know, you know. If you're an entrepreneur, you know what I'm talking about. Why would you have it any other way, though? It's interesting. People want this easy life, but they they're not willing to do what's required to get to an easier life. One of my uh one of my friends, his name's Dan Martell. I have a lot of respect for this guy. I've said him his name before. If you want to know a lot about business, you want to pay attention to this guy. He is incredibly intelligent human being and he knows what he's talking about. He he just he's got a knack for doing things. I think because he's guaranteed been kicked in the teeth so many times he's figured it out and he knows what to do. And um the reason I'm bringing him up is because he has a book and it is about essentially getting your time back. That's what you guys need to understand. Like I work 14 to 16 hour days. Do you think I want to? I don't. I come out here because I care. I even just said to my wife just now before I walked in, I go, "I didn't even want to come out here and talk to these people. I don't want to." Cuz 95% of them aren't going to [ __ ] listen. They're going to see this. They're going to [ __ ] They're going to get in the comments. They're going to whine and complain. They're not going to do a damn thing. They're going to go right back to the white coat with the god complex and go, "I'm going to listen to you." And they're going to get worse. You do you, man. But listen, for all of you guys that come out here and listen and pay attention, I'm trying to give you something so you have a better life. I'm not asking anything from you. I don't care if you join my black card or not. I don't care if you buy from Elite Biogenics or not. I care that you take the information I give you and you do something about it to fix your damn life. I am 52. If I would have known this, you guys don't understand. If I would have known this at 22, 23, 25, the things I know now, the number of people that I could have helped would have been infinitely higher. And I've I'm already over a million patients. So, I I don't I don't know what to tell you other than I come out here because I genuinely give a [ __ ] So, I want to talk about a parasites, cancer, and how they're intertwined in this disastrous mess. And I'm going to go into a whole bunch of things. You're going to probably have to listen to this two or three times because I'm going to be all over the board because there's a lot of stuff to talk about and I could turn this into a full year master class on exactly what to do like a college level two semester class. easy and I'm trying to give it all to you inside of an hour. That is me drinking coffee, by the way. So, I need you to understand like this is something that is it is killing you and I'm going to prove it all to you and help you because you guys run around like prove it. Prove it. How about you just stop believing the Insta bro idiots on social media and on YouTube and just go, "Okay, this guy actually cares." I don't go out and pick people apart. Insta bros and bro science idiots that walk around flexing their biceps and have a trap vein. I don't really care because if you're doing it because you want the attention, you're not doing it because you care. You do it because you want the attention. I don't give a [ __ ] if I have 10 million followers or 10 followers. I just don't care. I care that those 10 followers, if that's all I got, get something and level the hell up in their life. They're healthier, they're stronger, they're more fit, they have a better connection to God, their marriage, everything. They're healthier. So, here's what's wild. Here's what's really trippy. So, I don't know if if you actually just caught what happened just now, but I'm moving my mouse around trying to get this to work properly. But if you guys could see the [ __ ] that happens be behind the scenes here, you guys, cuz I probably just look stunned. I just was like, "What the hell just happened?" So, Riverside and its infinite stupidity has been if any of you guys know a better recording platform for and not Streamyard. I've used Streamyard. It's not good for what I do. It doesn't work well for what I do. But anything other than Riverside, take me there and just tell me. Somebody send me a message on Instagram. Do not send it. Send an email to Amber supportlc.com. That is amber kane. She is my executive assistant and she will get the information to me. No. If you send an email there and go, "Hey doc, I'm trying to talk to you." I'm not going to get it. She's the bouncer at the door and I promise you she's going to ignore the [ __ ] out of you if you're trying to get in touch with me for something stupid. But like if you ask me about dosages and stuff, just join the black card. It's freaking six grand. Stick a crowbar in your wallet and understand your health is worth more than 6,000 bucks. Like you guys, some of you guys are so cheap. It's unbelievable. And and if you, like I said, if you want to buy it elite, great. If you don't, then don't. I don't care. Like there's something that's killing you right now. It's very slow. It's very quiet. And you're giving it full permission. And here's the problem is you guys have heard about it. You've read about it. You've dismissed it. And you probably even said it. And you give that dismissive, arrogant, utterly ignorant statement. Parasite cleanse. Oh, dude. What are you going to go outside and do some grounding and maybe dance around a lavender candle or something like that? We don't need parasite cleanses here, bro. That's for third world countries that get water out of a hole. Okay, let me help you. Please understand, I've been through cancer four times. It was the most brutal experience and the last time was the worst cuz I lost a lung and I don't smoke. So, it's not from somebody around me that smokes or me. So, just save it. But saying that might be the single most effective piece of propaganda ever sold to the American public that you don't need it, that we don't have parasites here. It's a, you know what it is is it's a masterclass in marketing because it makes you feel safe and superior and it makes you feel all clean and polished and protected while the reality happening inside your body is anything but. Let me get this straight, please. The idea that parasites respect a border, they understand that you can't cross a line is idiocy. They don't need a damn passport or they don't care about your politics. They don't care about what clothes you're wearing, what your watch looks like, how nice your house is, how if you live in a yurt in the middle of nowhere, it doesn't matter. They care about one thing. One thing only, a hospitable environment. And you guys, we have built them physiologically a fivestar allincclusive everything you can do, all you can eat resort. So, let me let me How about this? How many of us are paying playing host to some uninvited guest? This is going to gross most of you guys out. You're going to go, I can't listen to this because I got [ __ ] that's living in me. Yep. The numbers aren't just alarming. They are screaming fire alarm in a building that you thought was fireproof. That's what they're doing. The WHO, World Health Organization, estimates that over a billion people worldwide are infected with soil transmitted helmets alone. Helmet is is a parasite. But here's where the narrative gets really screwed up. This isn't just a them problem. A study published in the American Journal of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene, listen, found that overall prevalence of parasitic infections in the US might be as high as, wait for it, you ready? This is the best part. If you're listening to this with somebody, you're about ready to freak out. One in three. One in three. So, I want you to think about this right now. Really, if you are driving and you're on the road and you drive, there's cars around you. I want you to quickly look to your left and look to your right. Statistically, one of you guys is carrying something inside you. It might be pinw worms, which is the most common form of parasitic infection in the US. 40 million cases. 40 million cases. Put switch that into dollars. How many you guys could use $40 million? Yeah, it's a lot of [ __ ] money. So, get that through your head. 40 million cases is a lot. Maybe it's a blastoystus homminus, which is a protozoan that's in about 20% of the stool samples in developed countries. Developed countries, not some third world living in a hut walking 17 miles eating grasshoppers. Toxopplasma Gandhi. that 40 million Americans, Americans, not worldwide, Americans are infected. These aren't rare exotic diseases, you guys. They're here. They're in your cities, in your house, in your neighborhood, in your schools, in your jiu-jitsu class. They're in your friends. They're in They're everywhere. They're in your homes. They're in you. They're in us. The problem is we don't feel them. So, you think they're not there. And they're so efficient. That's their genius. They're so efficient. A successful parasite doesn't kill its host quickly. It hides, modulates your immune system. It feeds and creates this lowgrade chronic systemic state of war inside your body. And when you finally go to the doctor feeling like death that's just hammered dog [ __ ] you know what the answer is? This toxic sledgehammer wrecking ball approach of big pharma because it makes the money and makes you even sicker and causes the my favorite two words, right? Managed decline. It is a profit machine. I'm so disgusted by the way the medical system has pivoted and turned into a profit machine. Do you know how much money you can make just by helping people? Hundreds of millions. Billions. You know how much money you can make scaring people into demanding that they take something under the illusion that you're helping them, but you're slowly killing them and you're a [ __ ] liar? Trillions. It's embarrassing. I make a lot of money and I help people. To be honest, I do more for free work. This is free. Like I none of you guys pay me. Well, you think because I get a couple of bucks from from YouTube? Ooh. Okay. But it's free. I come out here for free because I give a [ __ ] How many docs do you see come out here and do this that aren't concerned about their following and they're like, "Let me get a bigger following." so I can make more money. I'm just concerned about you guys getting some answers. See, let me explain this. You're sold a lie about cancer. Like this this inflammatory cascade from a very hidden infection is the bedrock in your system of nearly every modern chronic disease, especially especially cancer. I'm not saying this because I want you to buy something. I'm saying this because I want you to be healthy. Because this lie you're sold about cancer, this is terrifying, disempowering lie. We're told it's this mysterious spontaneous genetic roll of the dice, this lottery, bad luck. Your body just malfunctions. That is, I honestly think perhaps the greatest scientific fraud that's ever been perpetrated in mankind. Cancer is not a naturally occurring process that just happens. It is almost always downstream of something. It is a downstream effect of something. It's a result of a body usually that's overwhelmed, inflamed, and immunosuppressed. It is a failure of surveillance. And that's what your immune system is doing all the time. It's constantly running surveillance in your system. Listen, here's the biological truth that your oncologist, which you should never have, probably won't tell you. Put them in front of this video and they'll argue with their pseudocience. Put them in front of me. I'll bury them with the truth. Your body is a universe of cellular turnover. Here, I'll I'll explain how cancer works. You turn over about a billion cells every day. of those cells, 1% are mutated cells, which are cancer cells. It's cells that aren't functioning in the way they're designed, and your body gets rid of them all of the time. Do you think that when you burn somebody with radiation, you slice them open with surgery, or you poison them with chemotherapeutic drugs, the rate of mutation goes up or down? I'll answer it for you. It's rhetorical. So now, instead of turning over a billion cells a day, your body is now turning over 7 8 9 10 billion cells a day. If the rate of mutation is still only 1%, which is a very conservative number, it goes up because of simply by sheer math. So now the rate of mutation is 1%, but 1% of 10 billion is significantly higher than 1% of 1 billion. So do you have more or less cancer cells? More. So do you think you're overwhelming a system that's already being beat up by everything else, including the chemotherap chemotherapeutic drug, the surgery, or the radiation? Of course it is. But yet they convince you that they're doing something good for you. Find anybody you've ever met that's been through chemotherapy and ask them how [ __ ] wonderful it was. I did. I did chop series of chemotherapy. I'll never forget the vinristened dripping into my vein. Looked like red syrup. It took 2 hours to get into my system. I've never felt so horrible in my life. Well, it wasn't right away, but over the course of the next week, it was a nightmare. It got so bad I walked with a cane. I never missed a day going to my office. Anyway, what I was saying is you're already attacking a weakened system and you're giving it more reason to get even more sick. That's why they have something called chemotherrapeutic induced cancer. And they actually have a name for it. Are you out of your mind? 10 million potential cancer cells are created in your body every single day. But you don't get cancer every day. Do you know who gets cancer? Human beings and domesticated animals. You know who doesn't? And you guys will go into the comments and lose your mind. A wild animal. You'll never see it ever. You're not going to see a wild animal with osteio saroma. You won't. doesn't exist. You'll you'll never see a glyopblastoma. You'll never see any of that in the wild. You see it in domesticated animals and mankind because we [ __ ] up. And then try and sell a solution. Ask me right now what solution am I selling. None. You don't have to listen to me. Don't go out and get [ __ ] eye cancer. And don't listen to a damn thing I tell you to do. Then don't go to get chemo. Go have your eye rucked out by some surgeon that says that's the answer. have your prostate drilled out instead of fixing your prostate so you can never get an erection again. So the joy of connecting, listen, I don't care how nasty you want to be with your spouse. But the other side of that equation is it's intimate and deeply connected. I love having sex with my wife, but it doesn't matter how rowdy and crazy we get. It's still a deep connection with my wife. Imagine that you can't do that one thing. It doesn't mean I don't love my wife any less or she loves me any less if that would happen. But I'm telling you, that's a piece of your relationship that's being stripped away. Are you nuts? and their answer is to carve it out. Make sure that they reduce your testosterone as if testosterone is the demon. You guys have got to start looking at your health and taking it more seriously and become the CEO of your own [ __ ] biology. That's what you need to do because you don't get cancer every day. And here's why. Because you have the most sophisticated security force in the known universe. It's called your immune system. It's running 24/7 365. It identifies these aberrant cells, tags them, snags them, bags them, and executes them. It is a perpetual silent purge. So cancer doesn't happen because you get cancer cells. Cancer happens because your immune system stops getting rid of them. And do you know why? And it stops getting rid of them for three fundamental reasons. Systemic inflammation, suppressed immune system. So imunosuppression, and a lack of energy, a lack of ATP production. When your body's in this constant state of red alert, this isn't some acute inflammation from a stubbed toe or a sprained ankle. This is this slow simmering fire throughout your entire body which is fueled by hidden infections like parasites, poor diet, environmental toxins, genuine just genuinely stupid behavior and bad decisions, obesity, type 2 diabetes. This chronic inflammation exhausts and distracts your immune army. It's too busy putting out fires to check IDs at the damn door. That's the problem. And when you're immunosuppressed, something is actively suppressing your immune function. It doesn't just happen. Your body's not designed like that. This is the primary strategy of almost every single parasite and chronic pathogen. They release compounds that dial down your immune response so they can survive. It is a safety mechanism for them and a toxic environment for you. They're literally hijacking your command center and taking control of your immune system. And the lack of ATP production, remember three things. Your immune cells are these little lethal Navy Seals and special forces. They're like Rambo every [ __ ] day. And these elite soldiers need elite fuel. And so they require massive amounts of a cellular energy called adenazine triphosphate to proliferate, to attack, and to do their damn job. So if your cellular power plants, your mitochondria are dysfunctional and [ __ ] and can't crank out energy from toxins and poor nutrition, infections or whatever, your immune system cells are running on empty. They're too tired to fight. So they get in in the ring and Tyson is the pathogen and you can't even raise your arms. He's going to kill you. That's how cancer that's how cancer gets away. This is why this is why conventional cancer treatment is a catastrophic failure of logic. Chemotherapy and radiation are designed to kill fast dividing cells, but they're non-specific toxins. They nuke everything. They just carpet bomb the entire system. They annihilate your already exhausted immune system. The very system that you need to win the [ __ ] war. They destroy your gut lining, which is your second brain. It's also your primary immune organ, by the way. Crater your energy production. It's this scorched earth policy on the very land that you are trying to save. It is insane. You need to to wage a smarter war in your system. It's a much more targeted. And nature does this. It's already given you the answers. And I'm not going to sit here and say, "Run out and get adjusted. That is some bunky [ __ ] that some chiropractor tried to sell me, too. If you just get adjusted, everything else will be great." Not true. Not true. That's like saying bone on nerve. Not true. That's like saying a slip disc. Not true. You slip a disc and you're in ER. It's a giant [ __ ] ligament. Are you nuts? The the ludicrous the the insane nonsense on either side of this equation versus even naturopaths. And listen, how about everybody just looks at physiology and human biology and understands this is how it works and this is what we need to do to save it. Not how do I force it to do something that it doesn't want to do. It's not designed to do with chemicals that it's not designed to have inside it. Ivormectin, fenazol, and nicotine. And there's a whole lot more. or I'm going all the way. I'm full scent today. You've heard of them and you've been told to be afraid of them. And let me explain why you're told to be afraid of them because they are devastatingly [ __ ] effective. They're incredibly cheap and they cannot be patented. Like I said at the beginning, so there's no billion dollar profit margin, no trillion dollar profit in them. I'll even listen, I'll explain the mechanism of action so you can make again a an educated decision on the life that you have. It is your life, your body. You are the CEO. You better damn well remember that. It's not me telling you what to do. It's not a white coat telling you what to do. It is you. So if you blame somebody for getting sick, go in the mirror, go in front of it, go in your bathroom, look in the mirror, negotiate with your boss because it was your idiocy that brought you there. Ivormectin is not just a de like dervet. Ivormectin is not just some dewormer. It is a master key. It binds to glutamate gated chloride channels in invertebrate nerve and muscle cells. But here's what it does is causes hyperpolarization. It causes paralysis and it causes death. So here, listen, follow me because you need to understand all of this stuff. In mammals, these channels are primarily in the brain and the spinal cord. So they are protected by something called the bloodb brain barrier which Ivormectin almost can't impossible to cross virtually at low at standard doses. You take it like a muppet. It doesn't matter. You could listen I drink 80 cups of coffee I'm going to struggle. But ivormectin has some other pretty brilliant effects as well. It is a incredibly potent anti-inflammatory and inhibits the NFCappa B. It inhibits the NFCappa B pathway which is a major driver of chronic inflammation. Here's the cool part though. It inhibits the PAC 1 protein which is the fuel pump for almost every cancer. It disrupts the W NT pathway warird effect. We can get into all this stuff if you really want to which is but it's a key signaling route for cancer stem cells. This thing is like a Leatherman if you know what that is. It's like that multi-tool that people wear on their belt. Has does all kinds of stuff. It's got wrenches and pliers and little knives and stuff on it. It's like a Leatherman of cancer disruption. That's how badass this thing is. And that's just one, man. I haven't even gotten into wormwood or cloves or selenium or any of the other stuff. I'm going to give it all to you. So, if you got cancer, you're probably just going to want to watch this. Fenazol binds to parasitic tubulin. It disrupts microtubial formation, which is its entire primary focus. But here's a magic. Cancer cells have this voracious appetite for glucose. They overexpress glucose transporters. Fenendazol is the best part. It's structurally similar to glucose. Cancer cells suck it up just like a [ __ ] on a street corner and there's just nothing but John's everywhere. Once inside cripples their energy metabolism by blocking tubulin and hexocinise 2. This is hexokinise 2 is a an enzyme that's used in glycolysis. Starves them of their primary fuel. It's literally choking off the life. Talk about the ultimate Trojan horse. Nope. Can't take that though. It's for horses. I can't do it. I saw a doctor one time just before I get into the last one that I want you to know about. I saw a doctor. I was in the hospital. It's when I was in there waiting for them to find a surgeon, waiting for them to find me a bed, and they told me they were going to have to ship me out of state, and I was dying. It wasn't manufactured. I was dying. Like, by day three, I couldn't even get out of my bed to take a piss, and I couldn't function for more than 10 seconds without oxygen. I was in rough shape. And the tumor was giant, the size of a football inside me. And that's when I talked to God and I thanked him for everything. And 30 minutes later, Trevor Bachmire. Yeah. Just letting you know your ride's going to be here for half an hour for your surgery tomorrow. And I woke up missing parts and a mission. You want to know why I got back into healthcare? Because I'm tired of seeing what most of you guys allow to pass for healthcare. I'll bleed for my clients and my patients. I don't need a license or a degree or a piece of paper to say that. I need a soul. Most doctors become doctors for the wrong reason. Let that land. The last one is nicotine. And boy, you guys and your nicotine. Not smoking, not vaping, not a zin, not a pouch, not anything like that before you guys. C can I use that? No. Rugby 7 mgram patches only. Never anything else. The end. Unless you get tobacco leaves and you soak your feet in it or you that's about the only other option. So don't ask me, can I use this? Can I use that? Use these things that God gave you. They're called your damn ears. And pay attention instead of being so excited about what you can want, what you're going to say next. This is the most counterintuitive and brilliant of all of the things I'm talking about. We've been taught that nicotine is a villain, right? Except in the context of smoke. It is cuz it's delivered with thousands of carcinogens. Of course, it's a villain. Isolated nicotine, potent nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist. These receptors are on immune cells, cancer cells, all over the body. Nicotine is proven to have anti-inflammatory properties, modulates immune function, and crucially to act as an autophagy inducer. Autophagy is the body's cellular recycling program. It's how your body cleans out damaged components, and importantly, in fact, most importantly, triggers apoptosis, which is programmed cell death in cancer cells. It's a neuroprotective stimulant that enhances focus, enhances cognitive function, reduces the brutal chemobrain, which I had. It was nuts. Just to be clear, 7 milligram patch, steady, lowd dose, no harmful delivery system that smoking or pouches or vaping or anything else gives you. None. So again, don't ask. So I just gave you the golden goose that's going to do nothing but lay golden eggs, but most of you guys aren't going to listen because you guys are still questioning where the hell parasites even come from. How did I get those? There's no way. I eat my food. I get it from so- and so's farm. I hunt myself. Whatever. It's not just travel. Our food, conventionally grown produce fertilized with contaminated manure. Our water, our municipal water systems, even with treatment, can have all kinds of cysts. Our pets, huge vector, they walk outside, they pick up eggs, and they shed them all over your house. And you dumb asses go, "My dog's mouth is sterilized every 2 seconds." No, it's not. First of all, your dog licks his own ass, everybody else's ass, and his balls. And you know why dogs have funky breath? because it's filled with bacteria and all kinds of weird [ __ ] growing in them. Get out of here, man, with your nonsense. You just Oh my god, little Fifi is licking. Just giving me kisses. What are you letting your dog lick your face for, man? I mean, some of you guys are so weird. You let your dog lick your face, but you won't do anything even remotely close to fun in the bedroom because you're like, "That's not clean." Are you out of your mind? I don't even know where to go with that because your logic is so [ __ ] up. The soil comes from your soil. Kids playing outside, you playing outside, gardening, undercooked meat, sushi, big, big factor in this. You guys need your raw fish. I've eaten sushi and some I'm going to admit sometimes I I like sushi, but I don't think I'm ever going to eat sushi again. Rare blood red steak. They're everywhere. The barrier isn't a border. It is your [ __ ] biology. So, here's the thing. Your biology is the the answer. Strong biology. We're not these helpless victims that they want you to think. We're equipped with the most advanced pharmaceutical company on the planet. Our own physiology. right drug, right quantity, best quality, right target organ for the longest period of time. Disease is not a failure of medicine. It is a failure of biology, your own biology. The goal isn't to add more external toxins to fight internal toxins. That doesn't even make sense. The goal is to remove the obstacles preventing your body from doing what it was designed to do, which is [ __ ] win. The fundamental killers are always the same. Like I said, inflammation, immunosuppression, and a lack of cellular energy. Master your biology around these three pillars, and you master your entire health system. And it's not complicated to do, but there's having some magic juice that you drink or goat powder or a herb that somebody got in the Himalayas isn't going to do it. So here, I'll even help you reclaim your biological sovereignty. I'll give you a full parasite cleanse. Oh, I got to say this, too. This isn't meant to treat, diagnose, triage, prescribe, advise, anything like that. It's not meant to It's only hypothetical, theoretical, entertaining, for education, and it is all just this. In fact, this is just made up. This none of this is real. This is just me having story time by the fire. If you know, you know. It pisses me off that I got to say that. But they could run ads for the nastiest [ __ ] in the world with a little family barbecuing in the [ __ ] park with little snuffles, their dog sitting there licking someone's face. Yeah, you guys keep falling for it. Knock yourself out. So, weeks one to four, I will go right I will go line by line. So, you guys might want to write this down. Ivormectin. I tell people the easiest way to remember it is the Dervette paste right there. If you can see me, it is the size of your pinky nail. Take that every night. once a day for three days. I would go once a day for the entire tube if you really wanted to. So, there's two ways of doing it. Once a day for three days, take a four- day break and keep cycling back and forth. Or just run the entire tube till it's dry. I would suggest there's two ways of doing it. I would suggest just run the whole tube. Do that for 4 weeks. It'll probably take you two tubes. But if you want to do a pulse treatment, I'll go through that because a lot of people go, I don't want to do it like that. That's fine. 3 days on, four days off. But the logic behind it is sound. I've always just done it one to two tubes and I run a parasite cleanse every 60 to 90 days. But the logic behind the pulse dosing is that it prevents parasite adaptation while modulating inflammation. That's number one. Fenbendazol, same dosage. Take it daily. Take it with a highfat meal. I take it at the end of the day. I don't care. Just take like a half a dozen eggs the way I do it because taking it with a highfat meal enhances its bioavailability. Similar. Just do the same cycle 3 days on 4 days off cycle. And then nicotine 7 mgram transder dermal patch. I actually have one on right now. Yeah, right here. See it? It's right there. But nicotine, nice, clean, dry spot on your skin. Not, you know, right after you worked out. You don't slap it on your forehead cuz you look like an idiot. This is a steadystate pharmaccoinetics for continuous autophagy support. That's how I would run for at least 4 weeks. My opinion, remember this is just hypothetical. But now you want to run this at the same time hypothetically to make sure the system can handle it. It has the energy. Remember, we're attacking something, but we also need the energy and the systemic support to do all these things. MOS C and SS31. So, mitochondrial derived PE mitochondrial derived peptides, right? MOT C shifts metabolic homeostasis towards insulin sensitivity and enhances glucose utilization. SS31 is going to target the inner mitochondrial membrane reducing electron leak and oxidative stress or cardipin. Right? So, it the way these two work is they dramatically increase ATP production. This is the fuel for the things that are running around running surveillance in your system, your immune system. BPC57, TB500. These are the ultimate healing. This is the couple that comes in and just heals it all. It's like the Wonder Twins, right? Wonder Twins activate. If if you don't, you're too young. We can't hang out. VPC-157 is a master regulator of something called angioenesis and which is creation of new vessels, but it also helps gut integrity. What did I say about it? The second brain immune function comes from your gut. accelerates the healing of the gut and the mucosal barrier specifically which is compromised in leaky gut and the tight junctions aren't so tight. So the a lot of times it's LPS right lipopolyaccharides they leak into the bloodstream which is clean they come out of the sewer plant which is not clean which is your digestive system and it just causes this massive cytoine storm TNF alpha is 6 all those things that cause problems the leaky gut though in this case is caused by parasites and inflammation and it's a primary source of immune act of systemic immune activation so that's why you take this I I'm trying to give you the basic understanding without getting too much into the pharmarmacology and the practical biochemistry TB500 which is a synthetic version. It's a fragment of thymus and beta 4 but this is what promotes cell migration so they go to the right place and heal the right thing. Actin polymerization wound healing reduces systemic inflammation. It's awesome. Methylene blue low I just start low half a half a dropper of methylene blue work up to the whole dropper every day. Take it twice a day. Methylene blue acts like an alternative electron acceptor in the etc the mitochondrial electron transport chain. So it bypasses complex one and three the bottlenecks or the traffic jam if you've ever heard me talk about this happens and it sends it from one to cytochrome C the final end the end step so you don't get all jumbled up which means you cr 30 30 to 40% is the increase in um ATP production it like and it improves oxygen utilization it's an antioxidant it has neuroprotective benefits like these are all the things that you have to look at you can't say any of this about any chemotherrapeutic drug and if you are a proponent of chemotherapeutic drugs because they saved grandma Uh, no they didn't. Grandma didn't have cancer if chemotherapy saved grandma. No matter what, if you're like, I saw the tumor. Yeah. And you know what caused the problem? The doctor poking [ __ ] holes in it, taking a biopsy. You need to look at your diet. I would think hybrid Mediterranean and carnivore diet. The goal is to reduce anti-nutrient load. So lectins, oxalates, fitates, phalates, all these things damage the gut lining while providing dense bioavailability nutrition. Use good quality red meat. I'm not a poultry fan, so I'm not a big fan of eating chicken. I just don't think I think it's gross. It's right up there with pork, which is nasty. Go ahead, get mad. You guys get so offended and weird about stuff. Fish, wild caught fish, eggs from your own chickens, organ meats, liver, heart, they're all good for you. Unparalleled concentration of vitamins and minerals and co-actors. White rice, low in phates, well-cooked tubers. So, I'm talking sweet potato, squash, things like that. Fruits, berries, melons. I eat berries all the time, non-stop. gives it replenishes glycogen stores without provoking inflammation or feeding pathogenic gut bacteria. All of this stuff matters. Avocado, olive oil, coconut oil, animal fats are all essential for hormone synthesis which is called steroidogenesis. You need to build a healthy set of you need to build a healthy environment. The terrain, the ecosystem that you control that's wrapped up inside this sausage skin that you have. So anything inside you doesn't it's just not welcome there. The only thing that's inside you is what's supposed to be there. Everything else is just not welcome. And all of the things I'm talking about, especially about the fats, the abundant healthy fats that you need to put in your system. Stop with your nonsense statins thinking you have to reduce your cholesterol and that cholesterol causes heart attacks and strokes. The Framingham study obliterated that, but people don't look at it. Need to understand that it's not just the ecosystem that you're taking care of, but it's also your habits, your like even sleep hygiene, like how you sleep. Get some rest. You guys thinking that you can run on two hours of sleep and don't look at me and go, "Well, you sleep four hours at night, Spartan. You think that's normal, but I've been this way my whole life." And if there is a time that I need I need sleep, I sleep. So, things I do just to help you out that are that you need to do in this protocol that'll help you. 186 fasting opens it lowers the insulin levels. It promotes growth hormone release. It increases or induces autophagy. It's this cellular cleanup process that you will wind up enhancing with nicotine. Get like your sleep is important. I don't know. There's so many non-negotiables to this thing. This isn't just a some kind of parasite cleanse. But this is a total system reboot. You're taking what you have that has the ability to combat everything and you're actually giving it the power back to do it. You're creating an environment that is hostile to pathogens and parasites and profoundly hospitable to human life. So, reducing inflammation, supercharging your immune system, and flooding your cells with energy, which are the three things that you need to handle. You've been fed lies that cause death and lies that we're vulnerable and that we're broken and we need a lifetime of damn pharmaceuticals to manage our decay. But that's not true. Your system is designed to win. It is, listen, it is the product of a higher power that created us in a way. So, we do win with all the things around us in our environment that are going to help aid us in winning. It's just waiting for you to stop pouring gasoline on the damn fire and give it the tools it needs to do its [ __ ] job. And listen, if you really want to get into this, let's go full scent. Green hole, black walnut, cloves, and wormwood. I talked about this at the beginning. It's not a cancer cure in a simplistic sense. It's a terrain clearing agent. And its job is to do a couple of things. One is to obliterate the underlying fungal and parasitic infections that are contributing to systemic just remember systemwide ecosystemwide inflammation and immune dysfunction. It's designed to reduce the pathogenic load on the body. So, it's freeing up the immune system to stop stop fighting all these tiny little fires and allow it to finally focus the immune systems. It's immense. The power of the immune system is so immense. But now you can laser that focus in on the main threat which are the cancerous cells which is the whole purpose. And then you need to alkalize the system which is this is what is and then we alkalize the system. So by removing the the acid the the acid producing pathogens it shifts the body's pH towards a more alkaline state which is far less hospitable to cancer. This is so the first week one to two drops of the tincture the green whole black walnut tincture in a small amount of water. This is to test for sensitivity. You need to do this. Do not jump you guys that go it's like when you guys do red tide and I say start at 0.25 milligrams per week and you go I saw on Reddit I'm going to start with four milligrams. Enjoy puking into your coffee cup then you muppet. Listen up. You can't untake something, but you can always take a little more. This is for your benefit, not for mine. I know what I'm doing. I'm trying to impart that wisdom to you. So, you need to run a building phase, which means you gradually increase the dosage over a week to full therapeutic dose, which is about 10 to 20 drops two to three times a day. Take this full dose, 10 to 20 drops, four to 5 days, four to five, not 45 days consecutively, and then take 2 to 3 days off. This off period is actually really crucial in this case because it prevents pathogens from it's what I talked about with ivormectin. It prevents pathogens from developing resistance and allows the body's detox pathways, the liver and the kidneys to process the die off products, the herks reaction that's going to happen. It's okay. That's everything getting sucked out of your system and thrown into the toilet. Repeat this 4 days on 3 days off cycle for 2 months. It depends on the severity of your condition. It is absolutely critical to support your body while you're doing this. I can't stress this enough. Take a good quality binder like activated charcoal, bentonite clay, modified citrus pectin is amazing. Take it on an empty stomach away from all other medications and supplements. It's designed to bind toxins released by the dying pathogens and shuttle them out of the body. This mitigates the die off, the herks reaction, headaches, fatigue, nausea, and trust me, they get real bad. You have this and you probably won't even notice it. Drink a ton of water to support the kidneys and lymphatic system and flushing out all the debris that you are creating. Liver support, milk thistle, NAC, an acetylcysteine, glutathione, those are non-negotiable to support the liver's phase one and phase 2 detox pathways, which during all of this stuff are going to be working over time. Now, I I mentioned wormwood. Listen, when this compound comes into contact with iron, the reaction occurs that releases this torrent of free radicals like carbon centered radicals, right? This is why it's so lethal to parasites and cancer cells. Both parasites and cancer cells are iron hogs. They require and sequester vastly more iron than any healthy human cell to fuel their rapid replication, which is part of the problem. So when you take wormwood, it's drawn into these ironrich environments. And when it contacts, it detonates, causes massive oxidative damage to the pathogen or the the the cancer cell that it can't survive. It's like a little targeted explosion before you go, what about healthy sauce? Normal iron levels, they're spared this blast. It doesn't work. There's no collateral damage with this stuff. Cloves, that's the last one, come in and clean everything up. Non-negotiable. This is the detail that most people miss because they go, "Isn't this something I would put in my food?" And that's why it fails. It destroys the eggs. And this is the key to the entire protocol success. Most parasites, especially worms, have this maddening life cycle. The adult worms live in the gut, but they lay these microscopic eggs. So you can kill the adult worms with black walnut and wormwood all day long, but if you don't destroy the eggs, they're going to hatch and mature and then the infestation starts all over again in a few weeks, which is also why you cycle fenendazol to kill the eggs. You use ivormectin, fenazol, and nicotine runs around the clock. But this is why people do cleanses and feel better for a month only to have all of the problems come back again because you didn't really handle the problem. Cloves are the only part of this entire little triplet that has the ability to penetrate the tough kitenous shell of a parasitic egg and the larvae and destroy them from the inside out. It dissolves a protective barrier and sterilizes the egg. So without cloves, you're only fighting the current generation of the invaders that are in your system. With cloves, you're ensuring that there's no next generation. You are wiping them out forever. You're making them extinct. You're breaking the life cycle. So, I could sit here and run on this all day long, but you essentially have a way of mitigating destroying the parasites, destroying the cancer cells, and creating an environment where your body is inhospitable to pathogens and cancer. And you're rebooting your immune system so it actually does its job because you're going to have cancer cells there. Like I said, 1% of 1 billion cells turned over every day are cancer cells. But this allows you to control the environment and make it lethal to anything that's trying to come in and take over. But the first thing you need to do is clean out the system. Anyway, I hope you got something out of this. I'm going to go and eat. I'm hungry. Never miss
