# Trump's MRI Results

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

Today, Dr. Kyle Gillette and I are reacting to President Trump's MRI results. So, let's see what he has to say. >> Tell us why you needed to get an MRI. I understand that the results were good, but what was it for? >> Because it's part of my physical. Getting an MRI is very >> MRI is part of a physical. Isn't this the same guy that got a lung cancer screening chest CT with supposedly no history of tobacco use? >> I don't recall, but I wouldn't be surprised. >> It was either him or Biden that got one. >> Yeah. And uh I don't know what kind of MRI this is. Maybe it was a prostate MRI for an elevated PSA. >> Maybe it was one of those Maha companies that did a full body MRI. They convinced them to. >> Yeah. Um, we'll talk a little bit more about patient consent when he tells us what it was for. >> Typically, >> I had an MRI part of your body. >> Here's what the story is. >> I had an MRI. The doctor said it was the best result he has ever seen as a doctor. That's it. But I had an MRI as part of my standard yearly or every I think they do it every two years, but I have the physical every year and the result was outstanding. >> Was it your brain? you know, >> uh I have no idea what they analyze, but whatever they analyze, they >> So, uh this is actually not a bad idea if you are one of the most powerful people in the world to get a comprehensive screening. You know, I think does everyone need a annual MRI or an MRI every other year? I don't think so. But when you have a situation like this where a a finding right that yeah maybe could have been revealed earlier isn't found because you're not doing it >> I see I can see the case being made for that. Now if you're giving a patient true informed consent they should probably know what you're analyzing. >> Yeah that seems like a bare minimum and they should also know about the upsides and the downsides of treatment. If they had found something then that would be pretty terrible if they like let's say he did get a full body MRI and they found a few liver lesions and they said well you now that you've gotten your full body MRI we need a high resolution MRI or we need a 128 slice CT scan or whatever else it may be to rule out this incidental which just means incidental finding because it's not that uncommon that you see something on a routine screening imaging test of any type including MRIs or CTS or even X-rays and you make sure that spot is not cancer. So that would be uh I I I don't know if they would release that because that could have impacts on national security. >> Do you mean release that I mean >> to the public or release that to the president? >> To the public. To the public. >> I see. >> Yeah. and they would have to release to the president and then they would obviously expedite whatever else um like the secondary tertiary imaging screening test. But um there's obviously a lot of downsides like if you let's say you do find a false positive that turns out to be a negative, it's not cancer, it's not whatever they were looking for, you've spent a lot of time working that up when otherwise you wouldn't have to. So, I do think it makes sense to be very preventive, but the time to be very preventive is before you're president. It's not after. >> Yeah. Well, now it's just part of a routine physical. Um, presidential physical, maybe we'll call it. >> You think this is a brain MRI or a prostate MRI or full body? >> Uh, [sighs] I don't know. I think he would have more to say about it if it was a full body MRI. So, I'm I'm thinking it was targeted. I think he would know if it was a head MRI because, you know, only your head would really be in the machine, but you [snorts] know, maybe he's maybe he falls asleep as soon as he hits the table. Yeah, it's hard to say. >> Yeah, it can happen to anyone. [laughter] >> But you and I have both had patients that have gone for, you know, executive medicine physicals at various places and, you know, we we kind of debriefed with them afterwards and like, oh, did they tell you anything about these tests? Did they tell you about this cancer screening or technically early detection test they did? Like maybe they got a Grail Gallery test. Um, and a lot of times they they don't know. So then I'm very curious in that one in aundred scenario. It's like, okay, the patient has a positive cancer test, but you didn't tell them you were testing for cancer. >> Y, >> you know, the ethics that I think is kind of off. >> Yeah, it definitely is. And I guess one of the good things about being a cookie cutter executive medicine physical is that's what people expect. They probably wouldn't be surprised that you did some cancer tests because oh, it's part of an executive physical. Whereas if you're an actual clinic and your doctor, nurse practitioner taking care of people, they have much higher standards. So just like if people go to a, you know, I could be wrong, this is just what I assume. If people go to a cookie cutter tele medicine clinic for something where like a chiropractor or whatever else a naturopath is in charge of it, they're probably not as likely to sue for a bad outcome because they're just going there to get a prescription like they would go to Walmart to get a bag of oranges. Whereas if they have good health care providers, they have a much higher expectation. And so if something um you know ridiculously uh neglectful happens then that they're not going to react as well. >> Yeah. I mean it's like if you go to a a fast food restaurant, you know, you you just expect the order to be messed up some of the time. >> Whereas if someone sits down at a Michelin star restaurant, I've heard that term. I don't know if I've ever actually been to one, but if someone sits down at a restaurant like that that I presume is >> very expensive, you expect mistakes to not happen like ever. >> The problem here is when people seek out health advice, the fast food restaurant charges 0 cover and then they charge extremely expensive amounts that you have no idea going in. >> They really extra sauces. In a Michelin star restaurant, their food is literally cheaper, like a third the price after you pay the cover to get in. So that's the problem. Like in the food industry, I think it makes sense because you're going to pay more for that. But people don't know. And that's why I don't consider this negative content to talk about, you know, like informed consent and how clinics upcharge for things like this, hidden fees. Um, people literally don't know, which is why they pay more for a worse product. So if a clinic doesn't like being the target of that, then they should change what they do rather than complain about me ruining it for the rest of them. >> So >> is that a complaint you've actually had >> um with look at my Instagram in the past [clears throat] 24 hours. >> Okay. >> Yeah. Many many clinics are and clinicians are complaining that I pointed out that clinics upcharge for compounded hormones. They just do. >> Oh, that's right. I remember seeing that post. >> But they also upcharge for imaging tests. I know there's a very well-known, reputable physician that sells CCTAs on his website, not MRIs, but CCTAs, and um makes over double. I'm sure he buys them for less than a thousand and sells them for 2,000. And there's a lot of reputable physicians that have their discount code to screen MRI services or full body MRI services. and they make the patient and they're just they just think that they're using the code or just paying with MRI with the link >> and um they're making $500 per scan and the patient has no idea. Whereas if they get this service with us, you know, if you go to our website, you pick up brain key, maybe President Trump got a brain key scan because he knows that AI is getting better and in five years brain key might be able to tell him what type of neurogenerative disease he's getting. It's possible. Um, and maybe he went to a clinic where he just paid whatever, 2,000 bucks. I I don't remember exactly how much it costs for the brain chemi and the clinic bought it for 1,200 and sold it to him for 2,000. So, he doesn't know. >> Yeah. He actually he actually got ripped off 800 bucks hidden fee. Whereas, if he went to Gillette Health, he would pay our consult fee, which I believe is $500 for an hour consult with a clinician. And um then the exact cost, let's say it's 1,200 on top of that. So I just sleep much better at night knowing that there's no hidden fees. We absolutely charge interpretation fees. Obviously, you have to like it is a when people tell me, "Oh, don't don't do negative content for their businesses." Straw man argument. You can tell the president and you can tell, you know, one of my family members and you can tell just any other member of the public, this is the fee for the scan. this is the interpretation fee and that's okay. If they're okay paying that fee, then great. >> Yeah. Well, I think this is a big move towards transparency and pricing, right? You know, you have a, you know, I can go get a I did I got a shoulder MRI, 300 bucks cash pay whenever I tore my pec. Didn't have to wrestle with insurance. It would have actually been more expensive if I went through insurance. It probably would have been like, well, after your insurance covered their part, now you owe $1,200. Like, that's not an unsurprising scenario. So I think pricing transparency and people going outside of the system is really going to take a foothold and and become more prominent because the more people know about the cash pay pricing, the less people are going to like be inclined to pay ridiculous insurance premiums or you know they might start looking at a DPC versus a traditional primary care patient of mine. I mean I'll I'll steal a line that they told me. They said I think I see my mechanic and talk to him more than I do my primary care doctor. And obviously your body is much more important than your vehicle or um should be in in my view. >> Yeah. So it's good that this conventional medical system is crashing and burning. One other thing I'll say on this part and then we can see the rest of it is he said that this is part of his annual physical seeming all routine. We are still teaching medical students you should not do routine screen MRIs because of those incidental findings. So let's see what the rest of it >> did. Well and they said that I had as good a result as they've ever seen. He's had as good of a result as we have ever seen. So that would just be normal. How do you have a good result? Were they doing brain MRI and it was literally it was a brain key MRI and literally every area of his brain >> was 99th percentile? I guess that it is possible. It's not likely. >> Well, I mean if you're looking at um you know someone like him who is never smoked or done drugs or alcohol or at least this is the claim, right? their brain is probably going to look better than another I forget how old he is, 80 approximately, another 80-year-old's brain. So, >> with a little bit of hyperbole, I could see a physician saying something like this. He's like, "Well, how does my brain compare to others?" And he's like, "Oh, like this is a lot better than I would expect to see." >> Yeah. >> Um, but I've never seen like the impression line on a radiology report be like um I forget the exact verbiage he used, but it's like like nothing I've ever seen the likes of before or like something just >> the best results I've ever seen. I haven't seen that come across yet. >> Yeah, neither have I. >> Oh, yeah. >> That's the end. Well, uh, any questions or comments below? If you want to speculate on what MRI President Trump had, feel free to do so. If you think that he should not have gotten MRI, let us know. If you think he should get the MRI, let us know. I suppose if you have a horror story or a uh savior story about an MRI that maybe helped save you a lot of morbidity or mortality or a lot of pain and suffering that you've been through because of screening tests that have been pushed on you. Let us know.
