# Deca V.S Primo

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

Um, that being said, Tom Plattz took it supposedly and that's why he has all his hair. In fact, I think that's what he said. Just do Deca and then come off in the offseason. So, does that mean we need to put it in a tier? H, maybe a different time. Next is Deca. Um, also known as Nanderlone Danowit to the medical community. Where would you put this? It looks like our media guy already put it in a tier. >> A tier. if it's NPSA. >> I I don't know about that. There's not very many There's not very manyarmacies that use a phenyl propriate Esther for Nanderlone. >> Yeah. And I don't think this is one that can be reliably sourced from a commercial source like, you know, can't just get it at CVS, Walgreens. Uh, this one I would put it in a probably a C tier just because it is a bit tedious if you wanted to use this as a TRT alternative and do it right. >> Mhm. >> Um, and there's more things to think about um interactions with hair loss medications potentially the um larger impact on hematocrit. So there are some downsides here, but there are some pros as well and that it's probably a little bit more anabolic milligram per milligram, a little bit less androgenic. But since you have dutasteride, you don't necessarily need to move to a totally different androgen. You can just attenuate the downsides of the androgen you're already using. >> Yeah. Much more simple. That being said, Tom Plattz took it supposedly and that's why he has all his hair. In fact, I think that's what he said. Just do deca and then come off in the offseason. So, does that mean we need to put it in a tier? H maybe a different time. But in all seriousness, I would say I do see the the higher quality compoundingies. When I do occasionally use it, I often use Strive as a compounding pharmacy and they have I believe they compound nanderone toate, but they do not compound nanderlone phenyl proprianate. So, I would not listen to uh media guy Cameron over here. Disagree. I would use uh as high of a quality pharmacy as possible. That would be Nanderlone to Cano8. Next is Oxanderlone, which again looks like Cameron has already put this into the S tier. >> Yeah, he said if he could, he would actually put it above testosterone and cipionate. >> Yeah. Is this for males or females? I guess we didn't specify that in the tier list. I was somewhat doing it for males. >> We can comment on both, I think. Yeah, it's it's surprisingly going to be quite similar. Some females can tolerate nanderlone and also they're already on estrogen, so not that huge of a deal. Again, uh testosterone cypionate plus dutasteride for both males and females almost always more benefits and less downsides and easier to do than nandrallone plus estradile for males and females. So, it's like it's a solution, but we already have a better solution to the problem. Yeah, certainly the testosterone is easier. If you're talking about a lowd dose injectable testosterone, say once a week or twice a week for women, you can measure that, get a free androgen index, move the DHT down if you need to. Um, but there are some women who, you know, are less just the way that oxandrolone interacts with the receptor, they're getting less androgenic symptoms from that. >> Very high SHBG women. >> Yeah, you do have to be careful. Um, I certainly wouldn't use the two together. >> Definitely not. >> Because then you're going to have a disproportionately high free testosterone and free DHT, which is um really going to increase the risk for masculineization. >> Y >> um and then for males um well I guess this applies to women too. high SHPG, you can use that to um knock down the sex from a binogabulin to decrease the liver's production of that protein so that you're not giving someone an unreasonable amount of testosterone. Like let's say their total has to be 2,000 to get them to a free testosterone of 15. >> Y >> it's I think in my mind much more reasonable to lower the SHBG2. even if it's like 40 or 50 um and maybe their total is 900,000 I think that's a lot more reasonable than the 2,000 because in patients that I've seen come into the clinic even though the free is normal on paper even when the total is running that high there still seems to be some of the downstream negatives from testosterone so there's a little bit more to it than just free testosterone when you get to like an extreme circumstance like that >> yeah so I would say let's put oxendrone down into B tier. Sorry, Cameron. >> Um, both for males and women. It's It's not It's not >> often that the upside outweighs the downside. It's certainly not something that I would add into every protocol because it's like what makes TRT TRT plus or what makes HRT HRT plus? >> What about as a heart medication? Uh I I don't think it's Yeah, it's not great >> even for lowering lipoprotein little a >> if well I wouldn't necessarily consider that a heart medication but um as a for it's just a benefit that it happens to have it happens to lower LP little a sometimes relatively precipitously especially if you have very high SHPG but that would be a side benefit there's a lot of small benefits to it but the downside of it is again that it often crushes is SHBG very low and then it makes me mirree androgen index quite high. >> Yeah. And when I think about that scenario, you know, if someone happens to have the high LPA and the high SHBG and we don't see it affect their HDL that much, you know, it's it's always going to have a little bit of a hit on the HDL unless there's a big lifestyle change with more exercise at the same time, >> then I think it it could be reasonable because we know a lot of bad things are associated with lipoprotein A. We don't necessarily bank on the HDL being as protective as we used to think it is. But the honest answer is we don't know if that trade-off is a positive, neutral or negative right now. >> Yeah. So it, you know, it's kind of cringe to say, but a lot of people like to balance hormones and oxendolone one of the main benefits is it does help you balance your total and free estrogens and androgens. Um, and it also helps you um, you know, decrease overall total androgen load compared to like let's say if you were just on testosterone before, this could be as a male or a female and you keep increasing the dose to get a higher free testosterone, you're increasing the dose to get a higher free testosterone, you might be better off and you might actually be able to use less androgen. Not everybody's gonna like to hear that, but you might be able to use less um steadystate androgen if you add that in. >> Yeah, I see Cameron shaking his head. >> Yeah. That being said, you know, and last thing on this because I don't want to spend the whole time talking about it, is yes, these kind of like shorter half-life androgens. You can take them pre-workout and you can have better workouts, which is one of the benefits of any type of androgen for males and females. So, um, yes, if you happen to need it, that is a way that you can take it. >> Hearing a lot of benefits, Roxang. Sure. We want to put it in B. >> B for benefits. >> B for benefits. >> Next is Primobolan. I don't know what that is. Is that methnolone ananthate? Is that the medical name for it? This is known as Primo. And this is TRT plus. So, basically, if you're not on this, your clinic is just holding you back. Sarcasm. Yeah, I I don't know a lot about this in the sense that I haven't monitored patients taking it over long periods of time or prescribed it to anyone. With the primabolan, I do worry about low estradile because it seems to function like an aromatase inhibitor. Um I worry about people if I guess there are a few selecties that maybe have this. You know, I've heard whispers of that. The only one that I know that makes it makes an oral capsule version, which of course is not ideal. In fact, the in my opinion the safest oral capsule if this list was pure oral capsules. There was no troies, there was no nasal sprays, etc. Oxandrone would actually be the my prime choice. If I had to take a androgen that goes through my liver, first pass metabolism, etc. Yeah, that's the one that I would choose. But um yeah, I don't know of any sterile injectable say like um um ananthate version of the primable and >> yeah and from what I hear in you know the the bodybuilding community the sourcing of this and master has been mixed up for a long time >> but now like people are having a hard time getting either one of those things. Mhm. >> So, uh, it's something I would probably put in a D tier. >> D, yeah, D tier. If we had high quality compoundingies or a commercial product that's specifically used in patients that have very high estradiol, and of course, you would decrease their testosterone to keep their total and load under control. I think it it likely does have a good safety profile, but yeah, just because of the current sphere or whatnot. I know there's some countries that have this available as a pharmaceutical medication. Wasn't it a Bayer medicine? >> Yeah, I think that's right. >> Yeah, like the ampules or whatnot. So, if that is still the case in some countries, then maybe it's a much higher tier. But yeah, unfortunately here we're going to have to put it in D.
