# This ONE Test Completely Changed How I Train

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

BBLs, overdosing on GLP1s, bragging about your peptide stack and how it completely replaces exercise and aesthetic pictures like mere selfies or whatnot, even if they look super good with down lighting. [music] Welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast. My name is James O'Hara. I'm a nurse practitioner and today we're going to be talking about the importance of DEXA scans and how if you've gotten one, you might be able to win $1,000 in free labs and a free subscription to Sage Bios visualizer. So stay tuned. things that we're trying to normalize having a good DEXA scan for metabolic health and bone density being able to have clean coronary arteries and corateed and being free of risks of neurodeenerative disease things that are going out BBLs overdosing on GLP1s bragging about your peptide stack and how it completely replaces exercise and uh apparently even aesthetic pictures like mere selfies or whatnot, even if they look super good with down lighting, >> then at the end of the day, like who really cares if your health fitness or medicine influencer has great muscle bellies or insertions, etc. They should be bringing the receipts when it comes to actual health outcomes. >> Yeah. So the details of the contest like first and foremost are >> uh to win the maximum prize you have to beat Dr. Gillette or Mattie Gillette >> in five categories. So T-core which is bone density. >> Yep. >> Lean muscle. So how much lean mass is there in pounds um >> which is your fat free mass minus your bone mass basically. >> Yeah. visceral atapost tissue, bone mass, and body fat percentage. So, a lower body fat percentage, more muscle mass, more bone mass, or having things basically pointing all the right directions. So, before people get too excited, um maybe we just start off with your bone mass because I think that's probably the hardest single metric for someone to achieve. Like, if they were like, "Oh, I'm going to train for this." And >> like one of our physicians was, he was going to say, "How long do I have to get this DEXA scan to you?" I'm going to show up in 20 years and [clears throat] uh show you that I I beat you. So >> yeah, still might be hard. You probably have to start when you're a kid, which is what I did. I exercised a lot when I was a kid and I ate a ton. My bone mass was which is like dry bone was 9.5 pounds and my T- score was 4.6 standard deviations above the mean. >> So you're in like the top what tenth of a percent of the population in terms of your bone density. Yeah, basically Brian Shaw bone mass like nearing those bone mass numbers. Now, he's taller and bigger and a lot stronger than I am, but he also had a lot more visceral atapost and a lot higher body fat percentage. So, the trick is to have a particularly high bone mass and concurrently a healthy low body fat percentage. Frankly, one of the things that's helped me is although I've been very lean and skinny, I have never gone through periods where I really restrict down on calories. And I've kind of been in this perpetual main gain phase. >> Yeah. You never fell for the like six-pack shortcuts where you were starving yourself to, you know, get the quote unquote six-pack. Um and you've always had sort of um an active lifestyle, competed in sports, running, you know, like you said, basketball, soccer, all these things that are osteoggenic, going to promote bone formation. And then, you know, even getting into like weightlifting, right? You've been lifting weights for probably two decades now, would you say? >> Yeah. Close to it. >> Yeah. Off and on. I started significantly um really my last year of college, first year of med school. I've really got into it. But before that, I did a lot of what I'd consider like body weight exercises and sport specific exercise. >> Right. And maybe we can keep these pinned on the screen while we're talking about. So T-core um next we have the amount of lean mass 191 pounds. >> Yeah. So 191 pounds of lean mass. Um and then you would add that to my bone mass which is 9.5. So that would make around 201 pounds of fat-free mass. Um, this is something that I've built very slowly. I do have a very large frame. And I think everybody that I meet that knows me from the podcast, not in real life, says, "Wow, you're a lot taller and bigger than expected." Um, and um, you know, it's kind of like the illusion. That's why I'd be a terrible bodybuilder. I have horrible bodybuilding genetics. I really only have my ab insertions have I have like four abs. I really just tell our media guys to zoom out on you and zoom in on me. >> Yeah, they don't actually do that. By the way, um you have much better bodybuilding genetics and actually CrossFit genetics than I do. But one of the benefits of having uh you know being big boned, I guess literally is uh I've been able to build a lot of lean mass pretty easily. >> Bones like an ostrich, as I like to say. >> Yeah. Um by easily I mean I haven't uh I have never done a steroid cycle. You know, I talk about in the post how I started some low dose of like true replacement testosterone. I've never taken um you know, what I consider super physiologic doses and I have not had any time period where I've added a ton of muscle. In fact, the most muscle I added I would say is likely early in med school and when I went from being extremely skinny to just kind of like a normal athlete build. That's when I actually added the most pounds with my newbie gains. >> Yeah, I think I agree with that. And I know you posted a while back, we can maybe link to this or put it on there of your sort of progression from like skinny kid to putting on the mask to >> um you know taking hCG and like reasonable doses of TRT. I think the TRT is more cosmetic than actual lean tissue. I don't know if you would agree with that, but that's kind of my assessment when people go through like from like having low testosterone and still being able to build muscle to having some of those more cosmetic changes with testosterone. >> Yeah. From age 20 to my early 30s, I built about 50 pounds of like I gained about 50 pounds mostly lean and then the last 5 to 10 pounds. I have built with that. But I would say um a lot of it's just the opportunity cost. So in other podcasts I've talked about how my testosterone is dropping significantly. My sleep is worse. My varicus seal is worse. My testosterone was just much lower. And I knew that it was not going to get better. My health outcomes were going to get worse. My body composition was going to get worse. And my workouts were just much worse. So I uh I feel like keeping things consistent and progressing, it just gave me the tool in order to do so. I see so many people in my same age category, mid to upper 30s, they have three kids, they have businesses they're trying to run, and it is so common to see them um neglect their physical health and their body composition and it's really hard to get that time back. >> Yeah. [snorts] And you're optimizing recovery. Like I think that's the most predictable benefit of testosterone is you recover faster from exercise. Y >> you know despite what my health textbooks might have said in high school that some athletes try to use steroids or growth hormone to cheat but it doesn't actually help. >> Correct. >> Um we know it does help quite a bit. Um but not everybody gets the same like hyper response to testosterone or growth hormone or whatever sort of means they're using there. >> And then how about the body fat percentage? And this is a a common question people ask me is, you know, what body fat percent am I or what body fat percent do I need to be to, you know, see my abs? And a lot of it depends on how you store your body fat. >> Definitely. >> Um, people ask, can you spot reduce body fat? That might be something interesting to talk about. But you came in at just under 13%. So 12.8% body fat. >> The visceral fat was 0.2 pounds. So a very healthy body composition. >> Yeah. What's super interesting about this is the fat that I've lost in the last year and a half, two years or so is almost exclusively from my legs. And I have been running way more the last two years compared to the last five years. So, I know spot body fat reduction is, you know, supposedly not possible, but I think it's it's awfully suspicious that I've lost a lot of fat around my legs that are constantly burning, you know, aerobic oxidative uh basically fat burning exercise for very long periods of time. >> Yeah. Yeah. And I I think there's a couple of studies out there that show maybe a shred of evidence that okay, if you're like, let's say you are doing a ton of crunches or leg raises or something like that, >> that you might burn a little bit more, but it's not >> from my recollection, it's not enough to where it would make a large cosmetic difference. >> Yeah. >> But I mean, did you perceive a large difference in how lean your legs are from like two years ago to now? Not really, but mainly because uh pants still fit about the same. There was definitely a time period where I was squatting and deadlifting a lot more and uh pants were fitting a lot tighter and now it's much more normal. So maybe some of that it's just fat loss, >> created some muscle for legs. Yeah. >> I also think it's interesting that, you know, there's a lot of genetic predisposition. We do have a full podcast planned with my wife Maddie and about u lipadeema because she's extremely predisposed to lipadeema and basically she stays very lean all the time and that helps her not get lipidma which is basically the same thing. Uh and this is an oversimplification but it's similar to a beer belly where guys who have a beer belly or android body fat deposition it's very hard to lose all of that 100% without surgery. And kind of the same thing is true with lipadeema or gyninoid body fat or gynecoid body fat distribution. But uh she's always leaner in her torso than I am. And that's because you know females tend to be that way. They tend to carry their fat differently. And her visceral atapost is always better than mine is as well. So, um, you know, I I would love to have a leaner midsection than 11% or 12%, whatever it came back as, but, um, there's at some point downsides to getting leaner and leaner when it comes to performance. >> Yeah. And injury risk is something I think of there. I guess we can run through uh, Mattiey's results here quickly and and post those on the screen so people can compare their DEXA scans and see if they're going to beat her. Uh body fat percentage 17.6% which is quite lean. This is leaner than a lot of like professional female athletes even. So >> I think her leanest was 16%. >> Um yeah it is pretty lean. Um you know she's a higher body weight. I think 193 total pounds >> in this scan at least. Sometimes she's even a bit heavier than that. Um but uh that was quite good. >> 152 lbs of lean mass. >> Mhm. 7.1 uh bone mass and 2.9 T-core. She has had a higher T-core than that before as well, but um >> yeah, there's a little bit of variation from scan to scan. I mean, maybe you have a 1 or 2% error margin and the visceral fat about half of yourself. So, >> pounds. >> Yeah, it's a really good visceral fat score. I know Cameron, our media guy, has had a perfect 0.00 visceral fat score before, so shout out to him. But wasn't his total mass the same as Matty's lean mass in that scan? >> No, actually his his mass scores are probably pretty similar to Mattiey's. Uh he was just much leaner. Um which of course is you expect because females have a lot higher essential body fat. Uh 17% of a Dex is extremely lean for a female. I think when Maddie does bio impedance tests like the InBody um at this leanness, she would be around 10%. Yeah, the Bent to see much lower body fat percentages. >> Yeah, most people it kind of underestimates their body fat, but directionally it can be a good tool and it's non-invasive radiation. A lot of gyms have this for free. Yep. >> So, it's something people can use to kind of stay motivated perhaps as a tool, >> but you definitely can't compare. I know that uh some people Cameron for sure, Derek um is, you know, you can't compare a 4% body fat rating on an InBody to a 10% body fat reading on a DEXA. >> It doesn't mean you're leaner. It's just a different scan. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> And I'm I'm due for about two two and a half months now. I'll get a DEXA scan. Um I didn't get one right after my pec tear. Just it wasn't the first thing on my mind, but that's when my interval was due. It would have been interesting to see sort of maybe eight weeks post-operatively how much my right side had shrunken down and then how much it would sort of rebound a year later. >> Yeah. >> But I just didn't do it because I wasn't I was thinking about other things and rehab and work at the time. So >> that will be >> we'll see what that looks like if I've added some more bone density, added some more lean body mass. Um, I know my body composition is kind of strange where I could be I think I was nearly 16% body fat but still had like visible six-pack. So like for some people what body fat they have to see abs can be significantly different. Some people may have to be below 10%. Some people can uh store all their fat in their back like a camel. That's kind of how I think of myself where >> you almost always have abs. You'd be a great fitness influencer. >> I would actually say it's the peptides. That would be the most lucrative like career for me if I just, you know, stayed at, you know, six or seven% body fat. Um, you know, never took a selfie without a pump and then just sold ab workout programs and peptides with a discount code. Like that would be the least input and highest financial output. But I I wouldn't find that rewarding at all. >> Yeah. Just tell people retach your tide. >> Yeah. [snorts] >> It's so much better than turn up a tide. >> Use code James 10 for 10% off your redda. >> Yeah. [laughter] Anyways, uh sorry for the rabbit trail for those listening, but hopefully they enjoyed that. Before we wrap up, I I would say that even if you have not beaten us on our five different DEXAC DEXAC scan categories, yes, we we are just like literally born big boned. So, it's not totally fair, but we're the ones offering the $1,000 gift card prize. Maybe you want to offer your $1,000 gift card prize, you can choose different. Next time we'll do a normalized fat-free mass index to to level the playing field a little bit. >> I think mine is 24. >> Yeah, it's pretty solid. >> Yeah, Mattie is extremely high for a female. I don't remember what it was. >> In any case, even if you are able to beat them in two categories, go ahead and go to sagebio.com, make an account, and then message us on the Sage Bio Instagram. Yep. and we will give you a a code or manually apply a free one-year membership to your Sage Bio account. So, you can track all of your labs there. Um, try out the visualizer, talk to No AI about your health. Um, it's a really cool tool and and we've gotten good feedback. People seem to like it. And if you have feedback, we'd love to hear that, too. So, um, let us know if you haven't got a DEXA, get one to kind of see where you're at, get your baseline and how you can improve on it. And as always, thank you for listening and may God bless you with health and happiness.
