# Most Brutal Gym Deaths Reaction

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

All right, I found a video that would be fun to react to. So, let's see what these issues with the gym are. Maybe we can help them to avoid while working out. Number one, a man was running on a treadmill in a local gym in India, Sarasi Vihar. He was doing his cardio for the day when he started feeling dizzy and lightheaded. So, he stopped running and all of a sudden he collapsed and started convulsing. Two other gymgoers checked up on him and alerted emergency services. Medics arrived and brought him to the hospital, but sadly he was already dead. His name was Sedar Kumar's. Well, I think that one's pretty simple. Don't do any cardio. >> Yeah, I think that not doing cardio is great for health. >> Yeah. Or do a sports physical. So, uh, the actionable takeaway here is, um, you know, there's there's different criteria that we look for, um, from both family history standpoint of early cardiovascular death, even uh, things like your hand to wrist ratio. Um, oscultation can help, EKGs also help. There's kind of this big controversy whether EKGs are worth it. And then depending on the EKG criteria, um, all endurance athletes do these, people might be familiar with Christian Eric Ericson, the soccer player that passed out during a game. Um, but, uh, you know, all exercise has risks, but for most people, the benefit outweighs the risk for cardio. >> Yeah. And I'm going to add to it like this little guy right on my finger right here, the ultrauman ring. Um, instead of the I actually do the ultra ring instead of or ring, I don't want to pay a membership fee, so that's one reason why I do it. >> Agreed. The biggest thing that actually picks up for me because I have graves and I need to watch my cardiovascular markers is the core temperature changes. When my temperature spikes that would allude to getting sick or something like that, that can be a also reflection of your adrenals and if you're pumping out adrenaline or not and that's affecting your heart rate. So temperature change always shows for me at least before a heart rate spike actually. So I can prepare for a event if it's going to go on. Uh if your left arm is going numb or you're feeling tingling through the face and the tongue, be aware and don't hop on a treadmill and stroke out. What it sounds like happen or have a cardiovascular event. >> Go see your functional chiropractor for having those symptoms. And he was only around 20 years old, too young to die from a heart attack. Although he was routinely going to this gym, most conclusions ended up that his body was not adapted to the cardio and he pushed himself too far. His death was tragic and it's important to have a gradual approach for exercising at the gym as well as monitoring heart rate and hydration. Number two, imagine the most dangerous equipment in the gym that could possibly injure or kill you. You may think of bench press, a Smith machine, or a 150lb dumbbell right now. How about if I told you a treadmill? You might laugh in my face and then tell me to go to Weini Juniors because of how harmless a treadmill is. Well, that's exactly what someone thought rightfully before they died in Delhi, India. Saksham Prouti was at a gym on a Tuesday morning at 7:30 a.m. He decided to use a treadmill at the gym for one of his workouts. He was running and doing his usual pace when all of a sudden he collapses and falls near the machine. Other people at the scene saw him collapse and try to rescue him, but when they touched him, they felt an electrical shock. He was taken to a hospital and was pronounced dead from electrocution. Turns out the treadmill he was using was faulty. It had multiple complaints about giving shocks to people who used it, but the facility did nothing about it. After the incident, the gym was closed and the owner was arrested due to the negligence of the equipment. I'm glad this gym was closed so nobody else could get killed from a faulty treadmill. But it's unfortunate because he died at 24 years old. >> So the takeaway from this one, I think, is don't go on a treadmill in India. >> Yeah. Twice. Um, yeah, maybe we could skip this one uh because there's not a lot of techways other than go to reputable uh businesses. >> Number four, it's July 15th at the Paradise Gym in Bali where a man is going to perform squat presses with a 450 lb barbell. This man is an Indonesian bodybuilder that has an Instagram following of 35,000 people. He's also a fitness trainer at the gym he is working out in, so he's not an amateur when it comes to working out correctly. He's ready to do a rep for the 450 lb squat brass and has a spotter with him just in case he trains to failure. He squats the weight and starts standing up, but can't. It's too heavy. The spotter tries to help lift it up, but can't bring the weight up for the lifter to stand. He squats back down and falls onto his butt, and all the weight rolls onto the back of his neck, resulting in his neck snapping. He's rushed to medical attention, and they perform an emergency operation, but unfortunately, it's not enough to save his life. Justin Vicki, >> I've seen this video actually. It was actually like shocking to see. >> There have been times when you I've been in the gym and the person like tries to they if they don't know how to spot you properly, they pull you back and you're done. So when you're doing heavy weight like that, have spotters on both sides, side spotters, and then squatting down or just use a safety bar. But the good lifters like that can bail it at the bottom. So, and you just roll the bar off the back. >> Yeah. Um, pretty surprising to see. And I guess I've heard the devil's advocate say even if you know how to bail it out of the bottom, then why not have safety bars or a power cage, which I kind of understand, but at the same time, uh I've been squatting like not too dissimilar weight as I'm sure you have too. probably much heavier weight and not had safety bars purely just because at the lifetime that I go to, I have safety bars. But at the CrossFit gym that I go to, there is no safety bars anywhere. And CrossFitters are at least the ones that are still going there regularly are great at avoiding injury, including injury from lifting without safeties. But um I have kind of been tempted to think for people who are really lifting the heavier weights, the the squats, the uh whatever else, maybe they should be um more cognizant of using safeties. >> Yeah, I've actually dislocated or subluxed my elbow one time because when I went to rack the weight, they had to help me back up and it slid down my back. So I had it on my elbows and when I went to load the one side, it springloaded the other side and like snapped it and I almost like I couldn't lift actually for like a week or so, but it's be be cautious when lifting heavy weight. I don't know, some people don't need to be doing that, but if you're a professional lifter, different ball games, you like you're going to be equipped. You're going to have everything around you that you need to. >> Yeah, it is scary because he was very experienced. I'm sure he knew how to bail weight and had done it many times. So, yeah, hopefully that provides good takeaways for people. Um, if possible, use safeties and spotters on the sides. >> That was that was cringe though, that video. I remember it because that happened last year. I think >> a man in Iowa in the United States of America is bench pressing at the gym. His name is Kyle Thompson and is a 22-year-old senior studying at Iowa State University. He has a spotter with him while doing his bench press routine. He puts 315 lbs on the barbell and starts his rep, but the bar suddenly slips from his hands and falls right on his neck. The spotter gets the weight off of him and checks if he's all right. Staff from the gym give him CPR up until first respondents arrive at the scene. He was transported to Iowa Methodist Medical Center where Kyle died from major internal injuries due to the trauma on his neck. I wasn't able to find more information on how exactly the bar slipped from Kyle's hands. However, I could presume that he was using the suicide grip. This is where your fingers are wrapped around the bar without the thumb underneath. This makes it possible for the weight to slip onto the person. So, it may have been the cause. >> Yeah, I was actually going to say that it's literally called suicide grip for that reason. I'm guilty of it though because it feels more comfortable for me, but I would say even if you're an experienced lifter, like it feels better to actually have the thumb over or minimum wrapping in the bar, something like that. But >> also, if you're pretty heavy bencher, you probably have a decent sized chest and you can very likely also use safety bars to where it's not going to crush your neck. Now, it might crush your chest a little bit. Hopefully, not a lot. Uh, that might may or may not be foreshadowing, but uh, yeah, I was surprised at how relatively light the weight was. It was only only 315 lbs. That makes sense. Heavy heavy weight for a lot of people, but um, you know, I would have thought if it's enough weight to um, cause a fatal injury that it would be heavier. >> Yeah. just like dropping that on directly on your neck and closing up that windpipe. >> Yeah. >> Muhammad Farage machine makes it so the bar has a predetermined path that slides vertically and has a barbell that if it is twisted, the bar will catch itself. He begins to use the machine for his exercise routine and all is normal. When people at the gym hear a loud crash by the machine, it turns out that Muhammad lost control and had somehow injured his head. Two people at the gym ran over to his body to give him CPR. Emergency services arrive shortly after 7 p.m. where they do their best to try and resuscitate Muhammad, but it isn't enough. He was pronounced dead at the gym on October 16th, 2024. No official source says exactly how the bar ended up falling onto his head. If I were to guess, however, it would be he thought he twisted the bar on the hook and let go prematurely, leading it to fall on his head. Honestly, I would just avoid using this machine altogether. Not only is it an artificial path for your bar to travel, if the weight is too heavy and you have no spotter, you can't roll off of it or unbalance the bar to one side and get it off of. >> All right, I'm going to defend the Smith machine here. I like the Smith machine for incline press for sure. Um, for some reason, it's very difficult though to actually rack it when you're doing flat bench. I don't know what it is about it, but it's very difficult to actually make sure that it's hooked in. I've done it before where it's like gone down an extra pin. I like had to snap it back really fast to get it locked in. Um, incline tends to not be as bad, but I could definitely see that happening. >> Yeah. Uh, I agree. And another point on the Smith machine, you can still use a spotter even on the Smith machine or two. >> Is bench pressing at a public gym. His name is Xiao Hugh and is accustomed to working out by himself. He decides to load up 220 lbs on a barbell to train his chest and takes out his phone to record himself. He puts on a weightlifting belt and is ready to bench press. He lifts the barbell and lowers the weight onto his chest and begins to push it up, but his arms begin shaking. It's too heavy. The weight begins to slowly lower back to his chest, then slips onto his neck, pinning him to the bench. He's making desperate efforts to lift the weight and place it back on the rack, but to no avail. He tries to unbuckle his weightlifting belt, but he can't. And with his deteriorating strength, lifts his legs to move the bar up, but it's not moving. He's knocked unconscious from asphixxiation and no one notices Xiao up until 2 and 1/2 minutes later. Two gym employees rush over and take the barbell off of him. Seeing his lifeless state, they take him to the hospital where he is later determined as deceased. Don't put clips on the bar like when you're doing bench press, especially with 225. And I was just talking about the story when I tore my chest with 315 earlier this year or last year and I had to bail the weight like my literally my chest tore and I was able to bail the weight on the sides and the person next to me was apologized for not being there to spot me. I was like I would have grabbed you to spot me but I don't have clips on the side in case of something like this happens. >> Yeah, that's a good point. Um also as you mentioned it would have probably helped if he had a spotter. So that's something to think about. And then um when you're bringing the bar down, uh I think a common thing theme thing theme thing theme thing theme thing theme thing theme thing theme thing theme thing theme thing theme thing theme of the bench press injuries is that people are resting the bar you know up very high on their chest almost almost more on their neck. So if you do know you're going to fail, you can also kind of teach yourself to fail beneath your pecs and then it's not going to associate you. >> Yeah, you can bail the bar off your body too like by rolling it down yourself. It's I mean it hurts. It doesn't feel the best obviously, but your legs are obviously stronger than your neck is. >> Yes. >> Woman is at a gym with her daughter in Mexico City. She's using a Smith machine, the same kind of machine that took Muhammad's life. However, the exercise she is performing is different. A squat press instead of a bench press with the barbell. She is a bench seat underneath her while she is about to perform a squat. She decides to squat 400 lb on the Smith machine. A man helps rack the weights on for her and the daughter stands by and watches her mother about to squat the weight. She lifts the bar and twists it, letting the entire load onto her shoulders. The moment she bends her knees, she immediately falls with the weight onto the bench below where the entire 400 lb lands on her neck. The man and daughter immediately are shocked and try to remove the weight, but fail up until two other people help take the weight off of her. She is flipped on her side where she is found unal alived. That one's just sad. Yeah. Um, yeah, lots of things went wrong with that. >> Don't eagle lift, you guys. Especially for your loved ones. >> Yeah. >> Do it for yourself. Unal alived. I forgot that they can't say certain things on social media. >> Yeah. >> August 25th, 2020, 2012, at a powerlifting gym, there was a 34year-old man named Igor Galouchkin. He was a very fit and strong individual who competed in powerlifting from Russia. A powerlifting competition consists of three core lifts: squat, deadlift, and bench press, where the winner is the one who can lift the most amount of weight summed up from the three categories. In this case, Igor was bench pressing 400 lb for his competition to win. However, when he almost successfully lifted the barbell, his hands suddenly slipped off the bar and the weight fell onto his chest. The spotters were stunned and immediately took the weight off of him. Igor drank water and covered his face with his hands. Having felt such terrible pain, he felt his condition getting worse from his chest area and was soon taken to the hospital. It had turned out that he had ripped his diaphragm and crushed his ribs from the 400 lb barbell. Medics did the best they could. However, Igor later died from a cardiac concussion at the hospital. >> Yeah, that's that's pretty sad. That one was just a ton of weight. So, even if it's not on your neck, I you know, that's that's uh very sad. >> Ribs can only handle so much. >> Yeah. I suppose maybe another um point for having safety bars on some bench presses is spot. I maybe a spotter would have prevented that. >> I just think suicide grip. It's again suicide grip. I see it so many times where suicide grip goes wrong and even with the spotter with 405 you're not catching 405 on the way down no matter how strong you are. I mean maybe side spotters would catch it right but >> maybe also some chalk if you're really like an elite bencher benching 400 plus pounds then >> chalk is reasonable. The right thickness of bar can make a big difference with the twisting. >> Maybe that's my excuse for not being a good bencher is my arms are so long that it's way up there. So that's a lot further to fall than uh you know if my arms were only this long then >> I feel like my arms are almost as long as yours and I'm a foot shorter than you. >> Yeah, optic illusion I think. Um but yeah, obviously not an excuse to not bench just regardless of the length of your arms. Um you should um avoid suicide grip, use spotters, possibly use safety bars and maybe use chalk if your gym allows it. >> Yeah. and no clips unless if it's four or five plus. >> I think that covers it for that video. So, it's a little bit different. Hopefully, people enjoyed that and uh got some good actionable advice for their training. >> Avoid treadmills in India.
