# New Hair Loss Medication

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

But PP45 is interesting because it is targeting stem cells. >> Yeah. So it might not affect your PP. That's why they called it that. Um, [music] welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast. I'm Dr. Kyle Gillette. and I'm James O'Hara, nurse practitioner. And today we're bringing you an update on PP45, a promising hair loss or hair growth, depending on how you look at it, treatment option. So, >> I think I'll I'll save the people who just want the stats a little bit of time and we'll say that in 31% of men, they get greater than a 20% density increase. That's really all we know as far as hard data, but we'll talk about the mechanism, uh, and what these numbers mean in more detail. >> Yeah. And we don't really need know the, you know, the full data behind these studies. Again, this is phase two, not phase three. This is basically their teaser trailer. [snorts] So, everybody loves talking about their PP study, their drug candidate that they think is going to be really good. And basically, at this point, we don't know. It is promising but this is more for an investor piece to you know stimulate some excitement and there should be some excitement behind this. We're excited about every drug candidate for hair loss but for whatever reason maybe it's because they're affiliated with UCLA a big academic institution there is this is way overhyped. It reminds me of the you know a prospect who's in seventh grade and they're hyping it up for the NFL. There is a there's a lot of clinical trial to be gone through and a lot of like actual results to be looked through before this is solid. >> Yeah. And you have basically two buckets of you know hair loss treatments today. You have things that reduce DHT. You have things that um act as growth agonist. So things like your latannoprost, your minoxidils, your caffeines and so forth. Mhm. >> Um, minoxidil and dutasteride/ finasteride are sort of your mainstay treatments, but there are others that act on the androgen receptor like clascoerone is probably one of the closest. >> Um, they're looking at that at a 5% concentration I believe. >> Is that breezula foam? >> Right. Win levi 1% is for acne. Uh, it's a unique new mechanism for acne. >> Targeting the androen receptor. same thing except they decided to turn up the concentration for scalp application. But PP 405 is interesting because it is targeting stem cells. >> Yeah. So it might not affect your PP. That's why they called it that. Um anyways, this is a it would be considered a firstinass medication if it does get to approval. And the particular area of interest for this for myself and I think one of the reasons why it had very fast results and I actually think unfortunately it's very long-term results. You know we had a different podcast we might may or may not link it here that spoke about five and 10 year results for finasteride and dutasteride continuing to give you good efficacy year six, seven, eight, nine, even 10. I believe that was a maybe a Korean data base or something. >> Yeah, I think maybe up to five to seven years if I'm remembering right. People that were early like Norwood stage one >> yes >> um saw continued improvement if you were already like Norwood stage three stage four when you started >> your peak effect uh happened sooner like you had less to gain over the years so you had less compounding of results. But the way I think about it is the stem cell in the scalp itself when you start something like an anti-androgen like dutasteride that uh is more likely to stay in the scalp. So in the process of miniaturaturization as androgenic alopecia progresses eventually the stem cell will actually leave. So this theoretically would be particularly good at um you know the stem cell is about to break up with you and have like a permanent divorce and this is saying nope. Um it solidifies the relationship of the stem cell with the scalp and um helps with kind of the the turning around process if you will. But it's hard to say if this is going to have a durable effect and actually continue to prevent um you know the root cause of the problem. >> Yeah. And my beef I suppose uh in addition to them calling this a 2A phase 2 a trial I like phase one two and three you know keep it simple. Phase four is post marketing post prescription. um that they say 31% of men saw a greater than 20% density increase. So, let me just give a crazy example to put that in context. If you uh Dr. Kyle Gillette, let's say you went on a big steroid cycle and lost all your hair, >> not all of it, you had five hairs left on your head. If you took this and at the end of the study you had six hairs on your head, that is a 20% increase in density. >> Okay, >> so it depends on your starting point how impressive that result is. Like if someone's a, you know, nearly slick bald on top and they have, you know, an increase in the hair count density, it's not going to really do anything. But if someone is like, you know, stage one norwood and they don't really have that much density loss and you're seeing that much of an improvement, >> they're not going to get a good result, >> then it's actually more impressive because they're gaining more hairs. >> Mhm. >> Compared to the person who's nearly slick bald. And obviously, this wasn't the actual baseline. They didn't enroll people with five hairs on their head. I'm just sort of making the point of you can't really compare efficacy from treatment to treatment because they all have different baselines. Yeah, >> some of the studies do show like hair count per square cimeter and those sorts of things which I do find useful. >> I do like that uh methodology. I know Alec McCarthy, our uh PhD in regenerative medicine friend and has done the podcast, he also specifically likes to quantify data in any hair loss study. So again, we don't really know because I really haven't posted um the details of their study. It reminds me of a certain supplement company uh that sells something about a >> a thing you might make if you take in pomegranates, but they never give the baseline data. So, it it does improve your exercise performance, but >> we don't know how much because there's no baseline data. >> Yeah, not a great way to do science. Um again, in the analogy, the the analogy is, you know, your stem cell leaving the scalp is getting divorced. The worse your marriage, the more likely you are to kind of be on the line of a divorce or permanent split. And certainly someone who is far more progressed with androgenic alopecia is going to have a lot more stem cells that are still kind of hanging on for dear life, you know, trying to save things in the scalp, but you do not see the f. So the the follicle is not growing a hair, but the stem cell is still in the scalp. So it makes more sense to stimulate the stem cell if it is actually there. So I would theorize that this is particularly good perhaps nor would three maybe up to a four and then past that it does not a whole lot because the stem cells gone completely. >> Yeah. If there's no stem cell to activate then there's no mechanism. Basically it's it's going to be a placebo topic. >> Mhm. Um, I don't think that the results are better than this, right? If you're the drug company trying to drum up interest, which they've done. >> Yep. >> And drum up investor dollars. Um, what about the roughly 70% the rest of the study participants? You know, the majority of them, I assume, saw less than a 20% increase. I >> wonder if they lost density. if they were >> a Norwood zero or a one >> completely bald by the end of the eight weeks >> as if they used nare >> yeah I mean probably not but >> no >> um I wouldn't be shocked if there was little to no result and some people who lost ground because perhaps in very early stages of uh hair loss androgenic alopecia it does little to nothing >> yeah I think the interesting thing about this it was eight weeks if I'm not mistaken right and usually you think of like six months really to be able to visibly see changes cuz hair growth and hair loss is a very slow process. >> So the fact that they did see a subset of people that had improvement within 8 weeks that is promising. It's something that's happening more quickly than you might expect. Now I mean there are studies on both dutasteride, finasteride and binoxidil all three that show >> improvements at 12 weeks but those are >> unless someone is a hyperresponder in my opinion not going to be particularly noticeable to the naked eye. >> Yeah. Could also just be a hair cycle aligner. So all those hairs that were kind of in evagen phase that would normally not be around for several months, it just all you know they get uh rudely awaken from their stem cell sleep and they go straight into a very fast antigen phase which is kind of like childhood. So the the reincarnation could be much faster. There's a lot of possibilities of why the density increased other than um you know it's actually like permanently this much more density. Yeah, I don't know that there's a whole lot else to say here. I mean we are interested to see you know phase three studies in 2026. Um you know we'll be following the results of those get notified and honestly people will probably send us articles and so forth before we even come across it organically in our feed. Yeah, I love how many patients have told me this. Thank you to anybody. There's like literally dozens of people, which is insane, which I love that that many people are interested in this. >> It's like having a niche hobby. And >> people already asked me like, "Can you prescribe me this?" And >> as far as I'm aware right now, there's nowhere that is compounding this. Nowhere that I think um you can even get it as a research chemical. That'd be funny if it was a hair cycle aligner and then it's like everyone's hair as soon as it kind of gets into that tilogen phase just it all falls out. >> So it's a transient effect where it's like okay you can use this to get like 12 weeks of good hair but then you pay the price on the back end. >> Yeah. It's like if your hair because you know there's the hair cycle is normal. If your hair is generations it'd be like there's a whole bunch of millennials but um then no Gen Z like literally zero Gen Z. And then there's a whole bunch of the next generation. I forget what what it is, but then >> Oh, they say twins skip a generation. >> Yeah. >> All your hair, you know those double hairs that come out of one follicle. Yep. That they want, >> they skip one. >> It skips it. Yeah. >> Yeah. What about triples, quadruples? >> I don't know much about that. Too much clomid. >> Maybe >> let supposedly too much close shaving can increase the likelihood of that happening too, but >> of triple >> triple or Yeah, triple follicles. So, for those that don't know, it's like >> F offspring. >> Oh, no. [laughter] Oh, I see what you're saying. Like twin distations. >> Yeah. Anyways, um >> I I do think that in general this is very exciting, but uh you know, hopefully that gives people better background of why um I guess neither one of us are on PP 405. I don't even know if it's available as a research chemical. >> Don't think so. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I think that's some closely guarded intellectual property, not something that's been right like uh pyrolomide I think has been passed around from pharma company to pharma company to pharma company for probably a decade or more at this point. >> So that one I think I have seen pop up here and there. >> Um obviously I don't recommend using research chemicals. Yeah, you can get it on Amazon from Kentor Pharmaceuticals. >> The pyrolomide not RU58841 but pyroludamomide you can get in form of KX826 >> from the pharmaceutical company. >> From the pharmaceutical well um from I guess it would be an an overtheounter company. >> Yeah, it would be it's Kenour Pharmaceuticals. >> So it's considered a supplement. >> It's a over-the-counter topical medication. which is basically a supplement. >> Yeah. Which they have to like even for something like um Neosporin, right? They have to go through some sort of approval process which I'm sure they've done. >> Yeah. They have they got uh FDA approval I think about a year ago for it to be an over-the-counter topical supplement which is interesting because even if you think about minoxidil topical minoxidil that used to be a prescription only >> and then topical minoxidil went over the counter whereas the Kintor company must have made a a decision at some point to go over the counter and for whatever reason there is a whole bunch of hype and excitement with RU which is RU58841 on. >> Mhm. >> And there just hasn't been that same level of excitement with um KX826. >> Yeah. Like RU has been abandoned at this point. I don't think it's even being researched anymore. >> No. >> Even though it worked really well on the a stumptailed Makox, right? >> Yeah, I'm sure it did. Anyways, um we've probably uh belabored these points too long. So if anybody has questions or comments or other different hair uh you know viral or nonviral information, please comment below and we will. >> Yep. Absolutely. Thank you for your time. Thank you for watching and may God bless you with health and happiness. [music]
