# Are your kids eating arsenic?

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

I don't care that much that there is some medium levels of maybe bad, maybe not as bad arsenic in this candy. Welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast. Uh my name is James O'Hara and today we have a big health update. Candy is bad for you. >> Shocking. I was going to say that too and it wasn't even rehearsed. Uh, in all seriousness, if you go to, I believe it's exposingfood toxins.com or.org, you know, all the major news stations have a headline, state of Florida tests candy and most of it has arsenic in it. So, all of our favorite brands, I did not see Butter Fingers. That means it is safe for me to continue using those. Small amounts in my Ninja Creamy, just the inside, not the chocolate coating. However, uh a lot of things uh most things in fact, KitKats, Snickers, Nerds, all these things have a combination of organic and inorganic arsenic, which is a little disappointing because how much of >> because organic is always good for you. >> Not not necessarily. But um in all seriousness, it would have been nice if they tested that. And um you know the state of Florida is kind of seen as this you know make food healthy again you know against processed foods. That's good. I don't think that we should eat processed foods regardless of politics. Feel like that's reasonable to say. Comment below with some algorithmic uh disagreement if you wish. It's totally fine. But uh there was another organization. I think it was the NAC whatever that stands for and they came out with a statement that candy is perfectly healthy and safe to consume. But they didn't mention the >> something about enjoying it as a treat. Um, and I think they were claiming that these thresholds they said were artificially low. And like you mentioned, it was a test that didn't identify how much inorganic versus how much organic arsenic. Kind of reminds me of a lab company that I reached out to because a patient sent me a test that had high arsenic levels and I said, "Hey, is this testing for organic or inorganic?" And then the rep ghosted me. So, yep. We'll never know. >> And one lab company that we asked about that, we asked, well, how'd you make these thresholds? And they said, well, we took a hundred healthy volunteers, you know, probably people who work for the company or doctors who order a lot of the tests, offer them a free test, and then depending on what the levels were, we just made a bell curve out of those 100 people. Yeah, but I what's interesting to me about this, you know, make food healthy again movement is like they're picking foods and saying they're unhealthy, but not for the reasons you already know about, >> right? I think if you ask the average person on the street, hey, do you think added sugars are good for health or bad for health? >> They're probably going to say, well, like as a whole, they're bad for health. But nobody is going to change their behavior based on that information. But if you say, "Oh, there's arsenic or some amount of arsenic in candy," >> people are going to hesitate a little bit more to buy candy >> as opposed to I mean, if you're in a calorie surplus and you're obese or metabolically unwell, have diabetes and you're consuming excess sugar, like you're putting a known poison into your body. >> It's how I would frame it. And now you have this previously unknown poison and now people care about that more than they do about it being sugar. >> Yeah. Uh in all seriousness, I don't care that much that there is some medium levels of maybe bad, maybe not as bad arsenic in this candy. I'm not going to eat a ton of this candy anyway. Conversely, I'm not going to boycott this candy. Um you know, the main reason I'm talking about it now is just to say don't make a huge deal about it. If butterfingers were on that list, I'm picking that out just because it's the candy that I occasionally eat. I've probably averaged one to two per month. I make my Ninja Creamy protein ice cream and then uh unrelated, but my protocol for those wondering is I warm it up in my hand. I kind of get the chocolate coating stuck to the wrapper. Um and then I take just the inside. >> That's where the antioxidants are. >> Yeah. The inside's a crispy part, which means there's no delotterious health effects from eating it. and then I break it um and make it. But in all seriousness, if that had some arsenic in it and I didn't know exactly what it was, I might still have one a month. >> Um but I'm not going to go out and say um you know the the unhealthy thing about eating nerds or dots is >> Yeah. And there are healthy alternatives. Yes. They're usually more expensive, but there's also healthy alternatives like dates or like grapes that kids generally love. I just went to um grocery store and got some strawberries because unfortunately strawberries cannot be grown outdoors in Kansas during the winter if um and uh yeah, within one meal my three kids had eaten all of them. I got to eat one and it tasted like candy because I don't eat candy all the time. Yeah, that's a great takeway. And berries especially, I'm a big fan of, you know, I eat many, many blueberries. Um, do you think there will be people that oppose this information and say, "Well, I'm going to eat even more candy now because this certain organization says that it's bad." >> Yeah. Unfortunately, we're we're losing the big picture by majoring in the minors. So these minor little things, frankly, even the food dies. You know, I do try to avoid food dyes, but even that was a relatively minor thing. I think every time we say this, we lose followers from like both sides of the political spectrum. But uh in all seriousness, you need to concentrate on the major things. And as health care providers, we do our best to stay less biased and less political. Everyone has some degree of bias. But uh at the end of the day, the u the things that matter are your individual uh response to the diet, the exercise, the sleep, all the pillars of health. Those seven pillars of health still matter the most. And arsenic and candy is a small piece of that. So, it it's kind of like people who are overly concerned with the amount of mercury in a fish that they're going to eat once a year. It's not going to make that big of a deal. >> Yeah, majoring in the minors. I think that's a good way to put it. And I think that's a pretty good summary of today's topic. So, we'll put the link to one of the news articles in the description. And let us know if your candy made the cut. >> Yeah. Another fun activity might be comment below with your other uh health intervention or health concern that people are really worried about but you think might actually be not that big of a deal and we'll react to it. As always, thank you for your time. Thank you for listening and may God bless you with health and happiness.
