# This one thing is clogging arteries

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

[music] Welcome back. We have new data with the lean mass hyperresponder keto study. >> New preliminary data. So I think this is not yet published, but this is the data and we assume this is going to be published. >> Yeah. Again, like a teaser trailer for a movie. They usually put out the most important little tidbit to get you excited, which we love. >> Yeah. Except this is actually the data. Usually, you know, we see something very boring in our hair loss studies that we're following and they talk about phase two and say like it's efficacious, but we don't know anything about baseline hair counts or increase in hair counts or tolerability. But here we actually have the hard or soft plaque data. >> Yeah, it's a good one. Uh as a reminder in the previous study they analyzed things with clearly they got lots of various things like total plaque score which we'll go over today as well not good and they also got a cubic millimeter change in the total plaque which was almost all positive. I think there was a couple with essentially no change with the previous way they analyzed it with the clearly plaque analysis and this time they released the heart flow plaque analysis. >> Yeah. Uh we're clearly not fans of the total plaque score. I don't believe it's used clinically. I had to find like a couple of niche cardiology publications to even figure out what the total plaque score was and how it was calculated. So we'll put that up on the screen but for people who are just listening it divides the coronary vasculature into 15 segments. Each segment gets a score based on the amount of stenosis. The max score for each segment is three and hence the max score you could possibly have if you had say greater than 70% stenosis in every single segment. You would score 45. >> But it could really obscure changes. I'd wager it could hide changes to your plaque better than the government hides the Epstein list. >> I don't know about that. That's pretty good. What Epstein list? >> Exactly. What plaque? >> Yeah, in all seriousness, we have gone over a hypothetical example of a coronary CTA that had a huge change in plaque. I think last time we said it was from zero to 49% or 0 to 48%. Um so or I think it was 1 to 48%. So this hypothetical CT uh in all 15 segments went from 1 or 2% stenosis to 48% stenosis in one year and there's no change whatsoever in total plaque score. >> Yeah. So they I I presume the authors and maybe I'm mistaken here but they look at their total plaque score analysis and they're like this looks remarkably different than what clearly shows. Right. Clearly the data is quite clean and consistent. There's not a lot of variation. Clearly has been approved for over 5 years now. 2019 was the FDA approval for their plaque analysis. And >> you know it's not the wrong answer to use different methods to evaluate your data, compare the results, and that's what they did. >> Yeah. >> So they ran these through heart flow, which was approved for plaque analysis in 2022, >> but is just now being used more often. >> Yeah. It's interesting, you know, because there are two FDA approved things that look at the same clinical endpoint, but the results are a bit different. I mean, not strikingly so. You know, it wasn't like you found the exact opposite. >> Um, you still have the vast majority being progressors of plaque uh or unchanged, but interestingly, you do see more regressors with the heart flow style analysis. >> Yeah, very interesting. And perhaps this is because the algorithm used to calculate that score with heart flow is not as old as the clearly score. And from our standpoint, it's certainly we like heart flow. We like clearly. We remember discussing the plaque analysis uh product of heart flow uh just a year or two ago when it was first starting to be used clinically. So like any other algorithm, it's going to get both of these are going to get much better over time. So very excited about both. It's obviously fantastic for us and the consumer that there's these two competitors and that one does not have a monopoly. But as a reminder, HeartFlow's first product was their FFR testing, their fractional flow reserve. Layman's terms, just think of this as how the plumbing is flowing. And the plaque analysis for both of them is how much gunk is in the artery. >> Yeah. And I have to imagine when they're getting that FDA clearance, they're probably not looking at people with presumably minimal coronary artery disease. So you're probably going to get more noise and variation when you're running the tool on a population that it wasn't necessarily trained on. Now, I'm sure there were some of those folks sprinkled in, but I don't think that it was the majority of what went into the algorithm development. And what if I told you that heart flow doesn't actually measure plaque? It infers plaque based on blood flow. >> Correct. Um, heart flow is very good at measuring blood flow. Um, the point of the test and if you see a cardiologist when you talk about CCTAs or CT injams in general, they think by far the most important thing is the FFR. In fact, most of them don't care about the plaque analysis. Even if you say there's a 70% stenosis on this clearly or heart flow, they just say well what's the what's the calculated FFR? Is it you know.7 you know whatever whatever the case may be. But with the heart flow and this specific lean mass hyperresponder data it does look like the average is less than the average when it they ran it through clearly. >> Yeah. And Artflow did start their process with FFR, blood flow based data and then worked backwards to plaque correct analysis whereas clearly started with plaque analysis >> and then inserted their own FFR testing. Right? They can both perform the same ones. >> Yes. >> I assume that not many of these patients had enough plaque to actually qualify or like benefit from FFR. Usually you're looking at like at least a 70% blockage. >> Yeah. in which case they probably would be excluded from the trial I on ethical grounds I assume. Um but it's interesting. So you're sort of looking at you can make the argument is this the more important functional outcome is the blood flow that is used to calculate this plaque is that more important is that less important is it the plaque itself and it's hard to say right because people can build collaterals. So um we don't really know but still the vast majority are acrewing plaque I think is the take-home for me anyway. Yeah, certainly. And just like any other health condition, you're looking at the conglomerate of risk factors within that certain patient. But at the end of the day, if you're acrewing, let's say on average, 30 cubic millimeters of plaque, which is kind of what clearly shows, or 15 or so cubic millimeters of plaque, which is what heart flow shows, then you can say, well, let's assume I'm an average. Actually, you should probably assume you're slightly worse than average. Let's assume I'm slightly worse than average just to be safe compared to other people on a ketogenic diet. And this is how much plaque I currently have. And this is how much more I would need to have to have a concerning amount of stenosis. So, I guess you can just continue as is. Let's say you're 40 and it looks like you're going to have a stenosis bad enough to need a stent at 52. So, you can say, "Oh, I can just schedule my stent when I'm 52. Yeah, I think I think I go back to like the home inspection analogy here. Like let's say you have a a bathtub, right? And the drain is clogged up in that bathtub and the faucet's dripping, right? Your shower head's dripping and you don't know how fast the drip is, but you have one inspector and he says, "Yeah, this looks pretty bad. About 96% of these I see the bathtub's going to eventually overflow." And the other inspector is like, "Well, it looks like there's only about a 60 to 70% chance this bathtub overflows. Are you going to fix the clog or fix the drip or both?" Because there's multiple, you know, modalities for addressing cardiovascular disease. >> So, to me, it's sort of the same message still. It's like the odds are you're building up plaque, you'd rather not build up plaque. So doing something to modify the risk factor like you know Nick Norwood's one of the authors has spoken about adding in carbohydrates and >> yes >> he doesn't endorse Oreos although that's what he's known for like he has content about healthy carbohydrates you can add to your diet to lower LDL >> yeah benevolent clickbait >> just to get more views >> yeah can be a strategy you know blueberries aren't going to undo all the uh progress that you've made with your health on a ketogenic diet um maybe in a few select circumstances where people truly do need that for more so neurologic things, seizures or maybe depression that seems to be more in remission with a ketogenic diet. >> Yeah. >> But the last slide on here I added just because I think it does sort of speak to the critics that are saying the study isn't ethical. You know, you're putting people at risk and the amount of plaque people have here is quite small. Yep. >> Right. If you look at a grain of rice, it's about 30 cubic millimeters. And you know, so that's a lot. If you look at the outlier, right, that added 150 cubic millimeters, it's five grains of rice in one year in your coronaries. That's >> it's a lot. >> Not good. >> Probably an outlier statistically. >> And if you're looking at this low attenuation plaque, right, it's it's a vast majority or minority of subjects, right? So >> seven of them had this high-risk plaque. It's like a necrotic core and some other high-risisk features. um and only one additional picked it up, right? So you could make the case that oh wow that's a really significant increase. You know >> in one year you had an additional what would that be like 14% of people that >> picked up you know low attenuation plaque. >> But most of these people are not like someone you're worried about walking outside and having a heart attack which was the point of the study is getting very healthy people so you're not >> causing harm. That being said, five or 10 years down the road, if we went and asked all these study participants, especially the ones that found out they had more plaque and plaque progression than they thought, presumably none of these people had had coronary plaque analysis before the study, and presumably all of them would have continued on ketogenic diets anyway, even without the study. So, how many of them as a result of this study 10 years down the road will be on a lipid-laning therapy? >> Yeah, probably a significant percentage. You know, I don't know if it would be more than half because sometimes how people feel matters more to them than what's rational, but u I have to imagine it will save some lives. >> Yeah. So, props to the study authors for giving good individualized care, looking at each person's plaque risk and coronaries in a isolated scenario because like we mentioned in a previous post, there's also several people with no plaque progression whatsoever. >> Yeah. And that is what you could use to drive, am I someone who would benefit from lipid lowering therapy? Do you think that the heart flow algorithm just needs a bit more time for people with almost no plaque? It hasn't had enough time to get used to these people and there's just more outliers because it does seem like there's certainly people with more plaque progression and way more plaque regression than in the clearly group. >> Yeah. I mean, if it is based on blood flow, I I don't know how much indothelial function plays into that. Right. If someone is in this keto group, presumably they're very health motivated. They're probably active. >> Yep. >> You know, to have all of these markers and blood pressure and so forth in ideal categories. >> Um I wouldn't be surprised if they are improving their vascular health and endothelial function. >> I [clears throat] don't know how much that confounds the plaque data and heart flow. That would sort of be the question that I'm interested in. >> But you're right, it hasn't been out as long. And when we spoke with the clearly individuals, right, the medical science liaison, >> they tended to think that they're actually seeing a lot of these scans where it's a zero calcium score. Yep. >> But that there's soft plaque there. So it seems like they're not necessarily surprised by it. Uh I'd be interested to see what the heart flow people, you know, think about that. I know we had a brief conversation with them as well. Mhm. >> Um but I don't know that we specifically asked about that scenario of your, you know, zero calcium score, but you know, the sort of iceberg under the surface that you can't really see. >> Yeah, I think that sums up this teaser trailer, you know, preliminary data, non-p unpublished data pretty well. One other thing I did want to mention just because we get this question all the time is people are concerned about radiation of any CT scan, but a lot of people don't realize that modern CCTAs are only about four maybe five times more radiation than a CT scan. Now, I'd certainly rather have, you know, a CT scan with, say, one millisservert of radiation every year for five years than a five uh millervert dose of radiation once. But I would also argue that in people like this that are not going to have a high calcium score, what's more useful? a calcium score every year or every two years for 20 years or a CCTA, a coronary CTO now and then in 10 years. >> Yeah, I'd be inclined to look sooner than 10 years, but if I had to pick, I'd go with the latter scenario. And people can call and the imaging center should be able to calculate roughly like this is how much of a dose of radiation you would get. I mean maybe if you find a center that has a particularly older CT scanner there might be higher >> but uh in order to capture the resolution of images that are needed for this analysis I think that most centers capable of that are going to be with relatively updated scanners. So I believe the software does some fancy things like syncing up with the heart rate and that's why you have to have a low heart rate is to get the good imaging quality. Maybe in the future that won't be the case if the technology gets better. >> But um and the Millie Sever guidelines are more for healthcare workers, radiation workers or patients. If you think about someone that's in the ER all the time with abdominal pain and the ER doc every time is sending them through the assessment machine. Yeah. Doing a CT scan, that can really add up because they may be in there a couple of times a month. >> Yeah. So that's a a good thing to keep in mind is yes it is a downside but in general it is a downside that is on a single imaging scan basis often overplayed but on a basis of the average person who's getting a ton of CT scans in their life it's actually a pretty big issue but that's mostly not related I mean you think about what gets the average person um is cardiovascular disease like we talked about in a previous podcast. So even if there is a 1 in 1 million chance of developing a cancer from a CCTA, there is much higher than a one in one million chance in it saving your life. Whereas random CT scans here, there and everywhere for for no reason. Probably not. MRI should probably be used more often. >> Yeah, I would agree. MRIs cost more, so insurance companies won't like that. >> Well, that is a downside. But anyway, um there'll be a part three coming cuz I think they're going to use yet another um non-invasive method to sort of uh triple check how much plaque is being built up and I assume we'll see similar results. Who knows? Maybe they'll all be plaque regressors with this other model. I doubt it, but we will have a I guess part three to this saga. So stay tuned for that and let us know what you think in the comments. >> Yeah, thank you. And as always, may God bless you with health and happiness. >> [music]
