# The New Food Pyramid

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

What? >> Sir, the pyramid is upside down. >> Turn the pyramid upside down. It can't be serious. That would put butter and fat at the top of the the food pyramid, [Music] [Applause] which on one hand is good. Welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast. We give you tools to develop a balanced approach for health. We are discussing the new and old food pyramid today given that we are lifestyle first clinicians. >> Yeah. So the new dietary guidelines so you know 2025 to 2030 have been released and uh it is not a plate it is not a pyramid. It is an inverted pyramid this time. >> So let's take a quick glance here and I don't know what is your favorite and least favorite thing about this. favorite thing is the main thing that was missing with the old pyramid, which is emphasis on protein. My least favorite thing is that uh it's basically the same. There's a lot of similarities. Whole foods um you know, they say isocchloric diet, I think they also said still less than 10% saturated fat. Doesn't really look like that from the foods they put up on there, but um and then I guess my other least favorite thing is just that it's very politically polarizing. I posted this and said, "Great to see the emphasis on protein and also fiber." And lots of people said, "Unfollow. This is so stupid. Like, you should have liked the old food pyramid." The way that I think about this, and this is a little rabbit trail, that's my favorite and least favorite thing. We teach people to drive in a way that's not most efficient or perfect. We teach people to drive in a way that causes the least amount of wrecks. So, I tell people to follow way behind the other car. Nobody actually does that. That's how we teach people. So, if you're taking the driver's test, you're going to have to answer the questions in order to maximize how people actually act. The food pyramid should be the same thing. And the old food pyramid was failing. And I guess we just kind of ignored the whole My Plate thing because the My Plate, I think, was technically between the food pyramids. Nobody really talked about my plate as sort of like a thing, but then >> people still wanted to um use the old pyramid as a scapegoat, right, with the grains at the bottom as this is the reason that people are obese. So it actually and maybe we can just pop this up and post, but there's a chart that shows like the recommend recommendations from 2020 to 2025. Yes. >> And then what people actually consumed. So something like 90% of people were not consuming the correct amount of fiber. they're consuming way too many refined grains and like basically no whole grains. So that's kind of the interesting context you're seeing what people are doing and not doing >> going into this particular guideline. >> Yeah. And you know I feel like people who are very critical of this change uh an analogy would be uh for driving. They would say well it's okay to you don't tailgate a car but you can follow a few feet behind if you're not going very fast. But the problem is other people aren't paying attention and they're getting into wrecks. And with the diet, you're still going to be getting into a lot of wrecks if you try to follow something that is confusing. Just remember what George Carlin said. I think he said, "Imagine >> a big club and you're not in >> that one." And also, um, whenever you're worried about, you know, if somebody will understand something, think about how smart the average person is. And then I think he said, "And half the people are stupider, which is not a word, stupider than that." just hilarious. Um, but uh yeah, we do want 99% plus uh people to take away high protein, high fiber, don't over consume carbs. So, I think it's literally that simple. And I get the whole meme like Lane Norton, maybe I'll post myself doing this as well, where Lane stands up and says, "Hey, I'm wearing a red shirt. I'm wearing a blue shirt. We're the exact same. If people actually follow this, it would be fine." However, they're forgetting the protein component. That's like if Lane stood up and he was wearing pants in one of them, the pants being the protein. And then in the old food food pyramid, he was just wearing his boxer briefs. So, um there there is a difference, Lane. And you should know because uh I think uh Don Layman trained him as well, who's like one of the OG high protein uh individuals. >> Yeah, I like the emphasis on protein. Um, I don't think that just because it has a picture of whole milk that this is Maha trying to kill people. Um, but there is sort of a disconnect between the looks like a pretty fatty cut of steak there, some cheese, some whole milk, which you know in the epidemiology, dairy does seem to have some health benefits, modest health benefits, and >> I think that makes sense to take into account and also like it's a fairly reasonably priced like high nutrient food for a lot of people. Yeah. >> Um, but to your point, the saturated fat recommendation shifted 0%. It's still less than 10% of calories, >> even though the messaging is that a we're um >> removing the demonization of saturated fat, but they didn't actually do that. I think they're just >> banking on the fact that the average American is going to look at this picture and see steak and whole milk on there and think saturated fat equals good. >> Um, >> which is not great. The the reason they did that is they wanted it to be a meme. So South Park had their turn the food pyramid upside down meme, you know, 10 years ago and RFK reposted it and they just wanted it to be a meme. >> Sir, the pyramid is upside down. >> Turn the pyramid upside down. It can't be serious. That would put butter and fat at the top of the the food pyramid. [Music] [Applause] which on one hand is good because more people talk about it. It worked. Everyone's talking about this and if nobody talks about it, the same thing happens as my plate is nobody takes note. So at least this way half the population will consume more protein and fiber and hopefully not too much saturated fat although a lot of people probably will. So yeah, it is you know you can't have pure benefit for people without um you know being exciting enough. For example, they could have had a instead of this new pyramid, maybe they just say, "Hey, we're getting rid of the pyramid and here's a chart with three things we want to emphasize." Uh high protein diet, give some parameters. High fiber diet, give some parameters. Saturated fat remains 10% or less. But that would not have been near as exciting. >> Yeah. I think more people have already seen this than probably knew my plate existed just because like you said it's sort of been viral and health is now this polarizing sort of political thing. At least the dietary guidelines are. Um so saturated fat is unchanged. Whole grains are grains in general are just scaled back a bit. Right. So 2 to four servings down from I think up to six servings is what it was 6 to 11 or my plate was less. >> Yeah. If you look at the OG food was 6 to1 11 I believe. >> Yeah. So something reasonable like a whole loaf of bread. >> Mhm. Yeah. >> And then did you see the sodium recommendation? I thought this one was interesting. Cameron, can you >> replace the sodium that you use? That would be nice. Uh >> let's go to the next one. There it is. So sodium and electrolytes are essential for hydration. The general population should consume less than 2300 milligrams per day of sodium. However, highly active individuals may benefit from increased sodium intake to offset sweat losses. So I think that's new. I don't think highly active individuals were even considered with my plate. It could be mistaken there. But how much sodium do you consume? I assume it's significantly more. I do not know, but it is a it is a lot. On a on a hard workout day, probably 5,000 6,000 >> Yeah, I think that's milligrams per day. >> And people like um yourself who are very active, you offsetting sweat losses, that's not going to worsen your hypertension. >> Most people who are not well hydrated enough, who are not active, right? So probably 70% of the population does no exercise whatsoever. >> Yeah. I mean more sodium is going to elevate the blood pressure. I I mean I think isn't 2,000 milligrams still like the standard congestive heart failure diet in the hospital? Like this seems unsodium. Yeah. 2 gram per day sodium diets pretty common. That's on a lot of charts if you go to the hospital still. And you know outside of the inside of the hospital there's some use. But in the general population, a lot of people who are consuming a decent amount of sodium and exercising a little bit would actually be more helped by consuming more magnesium and more potassium. That can also help lower blood pressure. >> Yeah. So, this leaves me with two elements a day and then only 300 milligrams for all of my food. >> That's great. >> That's a joke. But I thought this was um kind of an aggressive sodium target and and kind of counter to the um I guess maja is associated with like pro- supplement pro electrolytes like I'm sure that one of them you know um I don't want to say like promotes but has talked positively about like element or any other electrolyte company you know electrolytes are very popular as like a healthpromoting food and there's this talk of like you know sodium for your afternoon fatigue or sodium to help you hydrate. in the morning and and those things can be true for some people, but for some people sodium is also just going to aggravate their blood pressure. >> Yep. But yeah, I guess they deserve some criticism for just going full meme to get as many eyes as possible and then choosing a lot of foods that probably shouldn't be there. Like on my Instagram, I was saying, you know, I think they could probably think of some better things other than bananas in order to put there, like a pomegranate or a beet. >> And you could say the same thing for avocados. a leaner cut of steak. Um, you know, a smaller glass of milk, maybe not putting a whole milk, the second row of all of them. Um, you know, a lot of people would say, well, almost all rotisserie chickens are covered in microplastics because they're sitting at the Costco or wherever they are, and the plastics was deployed to sell more turkeys because I was looking at that and I thought it was a turkey. >> Could be a turkey. Turkeys are >> That's a pretty large broccoli cluster there, too. >> Yeah, it's true. GMO foods. Anyways, you could um literally every single piece of this you could critique, but you know, at the end of the day, it's got people talking about it and people who are reasonable, which I guess is um only about a third of the population these days can at least take away something from it if they're not particularly political. >> What does it say about added sugars? I saw for children it recommended no added sugars. And I, if I'm not mistaken, the prior guidelines allowed for up to 50 grams per day of added sugars, which seems to me unreasonably high. Uh, but I think there is an emphasis on eating real food, avoiding things that have added sugars or that are processed. You know, the caveat there is that um protein bars, specifically David bars are okay because they're high protein, low calorie. Um, says one meal should contain no more than 10 grams of added sugars. So if I'm eating five meals a day, it's basically the same as the prior guidelines. >> The fake fat in David bars is not processed, is it? >> They get that from fake fat tallow. >> What about the sweetener? What is does it use sucralose? I assume >> it has a tiny bit of alulose. It also has a couple other sweeteners, but it does not tell you how many grams because I like to track how many grams of alulose I get per day. And when I have a David bar, I think, well, was that one gram of alulose? Was it five grams of alulose? And generally, it lists on the side, you know, contains seven grams of alulose, for example, when I have one of those RX sugar, what do they call them? Melt bars or sworthy bars. I I can't remember. Um, but it says contains seven grams of value. and you just add that to your total if you're trying to stand under 10. If you're trying to stand under 15, it's easy to do so. >> Yeah. So you don't end up with a surprise stomach ache there. >> Mhm. >> But no, that's interesting. I think this is an improvement on the, you know, added sugar recommendations. Most people are eating kind of three square meals per day. So that's a step down of like 30 milligrams total. And what did what did it say prior to that? It was sort of like, hey, no added sugar is best, but if you must, then keep it under 10 grams per meal, which I think is an improvement, right? It's basically cutting in half what the prior guidelines would say. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Says no amount is recommended. >> So, it's kind of like uh the stance on like alcohol, right? No amount of alcohol is recommended, but if you're going to do it, do it, you know, very modestly. >> Correct. Yeah, I think that's a great summary. And maybe we'll cut it off there, unless we can think of anything else particularly high yield. Um there's there's actually not a lot of things that are surprising when you read the actual text of this. Again, just kind of going back to the main point, the the picture is what triggers people. It's the emotional response. And hopefully this helps some people develop um you know, a tool to help improve their diet to some degree. But um you know, I don't I guess you could answer the same for you, but I don't think that this will change what I'm actually doing in a day basis. And most people, for example, at my CrossFit gym, I don't know if you've seen the fitness in a 100 words and it says like low carb, no added sugar, high protein, eat consumed diet, fruits and vegetables. There's actually a lot of similarities between this and what CrossFit nutrition has been uh preaching for uh probably a couple decades now. >> Yeah. I mean, the the protein guidelines are very new. I think there's more emphasis on protein and and there's protein pop-tarts that aren't really high protein. Everything is labeled as high protein now. I would be very interested if over the next 5 years that fiber becomes the new protein for health promotion and >> things start getting fiber added to them, right? So people are instead of getting 10 grams a day, they're getting 25 30 grams a day as a good start. >> Um >> so I I think that'll be interesting and maybe that's a trend that will emerge. So then if you have people that are getting plenty of protein and plenty of fiber, then you just have to get them to, you know, eat some polyphenol rich fruits and vegetables, take or leave the grains, you know, and, you know, that sorts out a lot of the issues for people. If you hit your protein, you hit your fiber, and you're eating real foods, sort of like this emphasizes. I think that's a pretty solid foundation. >> Yeah, agreed. So hopefully that helps people. Let us know in the comments if you plan to change your eating habits based off of this recommendation or if you changed your eating habits back when my plate came out or even the original food pyramid >> or if you're going to eat 11 servings of grains just to protest. >> Mhm. >> As always, thank you for your time and thank you for listening and may God bless you with health and happiness.
