# Demystifying the lipid (cholesterol) patient

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

Over 99% of people haven't had this critical biioarker checked. What is it? >> Yeah, it's a good question. and yourself, you've I guess you're quite greedy when it comes to testing this biomarker cuz you've probably had six or seven levels checked and they come back significantly different despite the prevailing theory that these levels are stable across the lifespan except in the context of menopause which I don't believe you are experiencing or ever will experience. >> Yeah, that's absolutely right. And all this biioarker is lipoprotein little a LP little A. It has nothing to do with LDL cholesterol. It is not cholesterol. It's a lipoprotein. And it is a significant risk factor for cardiovascular disease specifically atherosclerosis whether it's in the coronaries in the corateed and even in other arteries. It's actually a risk factor for erectile dysfunction because of plaque that leads the arteries to that area. But that being said, that is something that most people haven't had checked. They can just go to our website, sagebio.com, and order one of many panels that lipoprotein little A is in. Um, given that their primary care does not seem willing to check this, someone should write some guidelines so that these primary care docs actually know what to do. >> And that's exactly what we did in collaboration with a couple of other really good physicians and a lipidologist. Uh we had a good time putting together a paper entitled demystifying the nuances of the lipid patient. And in this paper we highlight how most patients even those that have had something like heart attack or a coronary artery bypass have not had their lipoprotein A levels checked. And that's we use this term a lot but a risk enhancing factor. So uh in this podcast we're going to discuss this publication and talk through uh what this perhaps adds to the value of the primary care provider or anyone who wants to empower themselves as a patient managing the >> still the number one killer. I'll just say eskeemic heart disease kind of put it under a big umbrella plaque in arteries in simple terms. Um, and I thought I would maybe I'll start doing this at the beginning of podcasts or we add it to the intro. For those that don't know, the the bell sound indicates a sarcastic comment. So, for listeners who are new or for those who are who've been listening for some time and don't know what the bell sound means, uh, it indicates the sarcastic comment. We certainly don't want anyone to take any sarcastic advice. So, just so everyone knows, that's what's happening. And I believe we have a sarcasm counter or will have a sarcasm counter. >> Yeah, something like that. Um, anyways, here's our first sarcasm counter. I I just want to keep complaining about this. You had to drag me kicking and screaming in order to actually write this article and submit it as a review in the American Journal of Preventive Cardiology. See the issue from this month. We'll of course include this link and maybe circle something in a big red circle for the algorithm purposes, but I figured we get right to one of the main points of the article. And >> after our second sarcastic comment, I like complaining about the food supply, but now that red dye number 40 is banned, I can't complain about anything unhealthy in the food supply anymore. >> Yeah, nothing else without further ado healthy left other than seed oils. Another one. Um, without further ado, we might as well get right to it because people say, "Well, we want the actionable advice." Let's just put up that chart of risk-enhancing factors. You might be able to skip this with another simple test that we wanted to talk about more in this article, but given that it's limited to primary care providers, and we want doctors and NPs that do primary care to know this, look at this massive chart with risk enhancing factors. It looks like there's a lot more on here other than just an LDL and a B. >> Yeah. So LDL and apo certainly matter. If there is plaque in the artery, the place that it came from is inside of an apo particle. >> U maybe some cholesterol remnants. That's sort of debated, but primarily you think of it in apo, but all of these other things that we've outlined here certainly increase the risk or make that process happen faster. And that's one of the big focuses of this is talking about how we need to start earlier risk assessment, earlier treatment, and focus on lifetime risk, not just a 10-year risk. So, if someone Googles, you know, ASCBD risk calculator, they're probably going to get a 10-year model, and you can actually put your lab values into this, whether you smoke, if you take aspirin, what your blood pressure is, and it'll tell you what your 10ear risk is. >> But if you're doing this, you specifically want to search for a lifetime risk calculator. >> Yep. And you might be surprised how high those numbers are since I think it's roughly one in four people will die from es schemic heart disease. >> There's also a 30-year risk calculator. We mentioned several types in here. But at the top of this chart, you can see adult patients with no history of ASCBD. ASVD is not just heart attacks and strokes for those who don't know. It's things like peripheral vascular disease. That's why places do things like a ABI which is where they look at the uh difference between blood flow in your different extremities especially your legs and it can also be um microvascular disease as well but ASCVD generally you're thinking about peripheral vascular disease and then even if someone hasn't had a heart attack or a stroke if they have known significant uh plaque atheroscerotic plaque in places like the coronaries or the croteds that's considered a CBD. Yeah, and you mentioned erectile dysfunction earlier, which is sort of a canary in the coal mine is what it's commonly referred to by medical professionals and assigned to, you know, double check on things from a cardiac standpoint. Really, a vascular standpoint is what you're thinking about. And then of course peripheral arterial disease where people are having you know this what we call intermittent claudication a lot of pain with something like walking where you're not getting enough oxygen to your muscles that are working and you are forced to stop rest slow down those sorts of things. And that's where that ABI you mentioned comes in. >> One limitation with this chart if you follow it down and you go to the left side and it says low risk. So even if you have relatively high cholesterol, if you put in your information, you know, your blood pressure, your A1C, etc., your BMI or body composition um data in the future, it's going to tell you your low risk if you're very young. And you can talk about these different risk enhancing factors. And as you see, we say risk-enhancing patient history in all four risk categories. And there's a long list of them. And if you go to your regular doctor, I would say there's a very high chance that they're not addressing all of these. So for people who are not healthcare providers, I'd say print off this algorithm and then take it to your primary care provider whenever you're doing your routine visit or ideally if you have a a specific visit for cardiovascular disease with that healthcare provider, then check off and see if you've had each one of these. the one that you and I wanted in this risk enhancing patient history that was taken out that the other authors did not think belonged in this area. So I wanted this right by CAC score of greater than one. Yes, we have the asterisk and it kind of explains what a CCTA is after the asterisk. Um, but we wanted CCTA here and what we got after discussing with the other authors is just a CAC, which is a a coronary artery calcium score. It's not going to detect on calcified plaque. >> Yeah. And the point that I brought up was the potential for a false negative there. Um, and I can see the different sides of the sort of conversation where it's a good tool for a lot of people, but it's not perfect. And I think that was emphasized especially in younger patients. >> And the analogy I use when I talk with patients about getting a calcium score is, you know, let's say I think it's like 85 or 90% accurate, right, for identifying someone that's high risk. You know, if you're looking at um purchasing a home and having a home inspection and they tell you, well, you know, 85 or 90% chance the foundation doesn't have a problem. Is that good enough? And if that's not good enough for a home purchase, then why is that good enough for the most likely cause of your death or demise? So, >> um to be fair, they do have the CAD rats in there, right? They consider a CAD rads greater than one a risk enhancing factor, which it's kind of interesting depending on, >> you know, risk of um like an event. Yes. >> But if there's a CAD rads of greater than one, then that's already disease itself that's there. It's just early stage coronary artery disease. >> Correct. And of course, as we write in the paper, age is a uh a huge variable in this. So, if you're 30 years old and you have a positive coronary artery calcium score, that's pretty concerning. If someone's 70, that's just a lot more time to allow the plaque to calcify and you expect a positive coronary artery calcium score. >> Yeah. One of the things that we I think really emphasized was treatment targets rather than sort of the historical view which is okay if they are in this category of risk you put them on high intensity moderate intensity low intensity you look at the actual numbers that >> correspond with aogenic potential and I think this is the way the field is shifting >> you know TV commercials I see like you know are you in the danger zone or something of that effect and they're asking about an LDL LC of 70 or >> LDLC of 55. And it it my take I think these pharmaceutical advertisements should include actors portraying the side effects. That's a topic for another day. >> But you know these are numbers that are being talked about and um I guess we didn't list the APOB equivalencies in the paper but we'll put those in a chart here. >> Yeah, there was one chart we weren't able to include. We wanted to. If you look at your LDL 180 or 190 I believe is equivalent to about 140 for APOB and there's just not enough chart space in most these journals. They have a limit on the amount of charts and graphs you can have. So we we'll post that here. >> Yep. And talked about shared decision-making. This is something you and I talk about a lot with our patients and on podcasts and sort of taking all these variables into account, right? It's this risk-enhancing factor chart is a great example. you have all of these pieces of data that are sort of steering your conversation about how safe is this person, how much risk is this person at >> short of like actually looking at the arteries themselves. Um because not everybody has the resources to go and get a CCTA scan and know for sure. >> Um hopefully that's different in the future and this is more adopted as a widespread initial screening. Yeah, correct. For those that don't have access to that, there's a lot of information they can put in here and then have a discussion about, you know, how high is my risk actually? What are the options? You know, always have the option of doing nothing. You I have patients that tell me, >> you know, I've I've made my peace with God and, you know, if something happens to me, it happens to me. And that's a decision. >> You can continue to monitor. You can have lifestyle intervention, which is always first line. And we mentioned that quite a few times in this paper. In fact, if you look at this chart and you go to all four risk categories, heart-healthy lifestyle changes is before the decision for or against lipid lowering therapy in every single category. So, um again, if you're taking if you're printing this off, taking it to your doctor, go ahead and circle the heart healthy lifestyle changes in all four risk categories and maybe circle it in red when you take it into your doctor NP. >> Yeah. So I think that's huge because that's, you know, going to be extremely helpful in developing collaterals or controlling blood pressure or insulin sensitivity. Exercise and diet by itself may not reduce your LDL by 70%. >> Or APOV by 60% or whatever the metrics may be, but it's going to have a significant impact on a lot of these other risk enhancing factors. Mhm. >> So I think that's important to have that be the primary intervention because that benefits a lot of other organ systems. Whereas lipid lowering therapy, I mean you could argue it has a couple of like offset benefits for other organ systems, but it's primarily a vascular intervention. >> Yeah, this is a niche point, but there's other risk-enhancing factors. Again, this is not an exhaustive list that's on the side panel, but things like chronic inflammatory or autoimmune diseases that increase your risk. things like preeacclampsia, which is actually sort of a type of vascular disease, history of preeacclampsia in pregnancy. Um, those things should be history items that your doctor is aware of. >> Yeah. And we mentioned side effects and specific side effects in this paper. So I'm >> we did >> curious how it will be received by our you know colleagues and other clinicians who certainly want patients to use medications that would benefit them but at the same time weighing true informed consent right like >> bidoic acid and tendon rupture >> you know >> we went back and forth quite a bit deciding how much information to put in about that or how little. >> Yeah. And if you're also looking at a a population who is, you know, doing these lifestyle things and they're active, they're going to have a higher baseline risk of these things like muscle pain or, you know, tenonopathies or rupture compared to probably the average group that's in a say statin trial that shows risk reduction. >> That being said, even with no lipid lowering therapy in your lifetime, if you have high cholesterol, you're already at increased risk of tendonopathy and tendon rupture. Yeah, it's interesting. And they can do ultrasounds and see some of the cholesterol deposits in the connective tissue. So, it's sort of a question of was it because of those initial deposits or is it something unique to the medication? And it's probably a bit of both to be honest. >> Mhm. So, it sounds like it's a relatively complicated thing. We have complicated flowcharts here that are helpful, but still a lot of decisions to be made. But does this also apply for people that are on carnivore diets or keto diets? Because if I'm looking here, if I have an LDL over 190, then generally, does that mean you just skip to lipid lowering therapy and not talk about the side effects? I'm kind of playing devil's advocate here. >> Yeah, that would have been a uh an amusing chart to create, right? Risken enhancing factors. And then you just create another arrow down below everyone that says unless keto >> um then no risk, which is clearly not the case. That's another sarcastic comment. But some people will believe that because they're eating a certain way or doing a certain lifestyle thing or on the flip side believe that because they're taking a medication that they are 100% protected. >> And that's really not the case. If you look at recurrence of like a second heart attack after a first one, >> very high within that first five years. I think it's about 50%. It may have gotten better uh more recently, but I think that was the number at one point in time. Yeah. Uh, another chart that's helpful for people to look at is the table two additional test tests. So, this just says specific things where you're moderately or significantly concerned. So again, from the patient standpoint, from the provider standpoint, if you want to print this off and write in your actual amounts or the patients amounts or whatnot or make some sort of template for this, then you can see because not everybody is familiar with these things. For example, not everybody's familiar with an ABI and that's what I mentioned earlier, which is just kind of looking at the um difference in blood flow between the upper and lower extremities. the calcium score we've already uh spoken about and then fortunately we did include some significant information about CAD rads in here and then estimated total plaque burden which is more helpful than what we see in the various keto trials for evaluating their uh CCTA scores. >> Yeah, we didn't use a total plaque score um estimated plaque burden. If you go a step further, do something like a clearly analysis you can get a precise plaque burden. I like to make the comparison of I think five or six cubic millimeters of plaque is about the size of a grain of rice. >> So, you know, if somebody has you say 300 cubic millimeters of plaque, like that's a lot. If you think about the coronary vasc vascule and how compromised that might be, >> especially if you're looking at like a calcium score that's that high, like that's a lot of calcification and you don't know how much soft black is sort of lurking beneath the surface. >> Yeah. So again, a thank you to our co-authors. Um, you know, we don't just complain about uh various cardiologists and lipidologists not being able to interpret various data like a CCTA. We're actually publishing in the clinical literature. Um, Dr. Meyerson is she is a lipidologist as well. So she is obviously the primary author of this. So um hopefully people can appreciate this. sometimes the negative news about how maybe people use chat GPT instead of researching things for themselves. Sometimes those things get the most comment and likes and interaction. So hopefully this episode does well. But uh this is some actionable data that people can take and use. And uh my friend who is a cardiologist is also he also might podcast but um he might review this paper from a cardiologist standpoint since that's the one thing you know this is written for primary care providers but we wrote it in a way that the average individual can also read it that's somewhat health literate and get some good takeaways. That being said, again, the authors are family medicine doctors, family medicine nurse practitioners, and a lipidologist. So, that's one of the angles that can potentially be uh incorporated. >> Yeah. And this was published open access, so anyone can go and download or read the full version. I think that's always super important. And I commend people who do the same because I do like to see the full text and not just sort of read an abstract with the outcome and a brief overview of the methods. I I like to really get granular when I'm assessing uh publication. And another thing that I think was really interesting we added and you don't see this in a lot of shorter lipid publications is the impact of >> mental health and sleep on cardiovascular disease. >> So if someone's looking at your risk profile, they really should be taking those things into account. You know, how many hours a night are you sleeping? You know, what is your mental health like? Yeah. The um believe it was the inner heart trial um quite a few different countries they looked at and chronic work stress I think was about a doubling of risk. >> Wow. >> For heart attacks. So, you know, it doesn't just matter what your blood work looks like. It matters how stressed you are and how your other lifestyle pillars are. >> I guess we'll have to be nice to Cameron now. >> Chronic work stress. One other limitation of the paper is table three is lifestyle modifications for ASVD prevention. We talk about this extensively in the various podcasts we do and some of those podcasts do great, some of them don't do as great. Probably mostly just because of benevolent clickbait. People want to be able to click something. So, we'll have something very clickable for this podcast. But, um, you know, actually Danny Jones and Chris Bell spoke about this fairly recently. We when we're writing scientific literature, we of course need to source things. People can check our references. There is a huge list of them in this paper because you want to be well referenced from good studies that ideally are mostly RCTs, which are randomized control trials. And a lot of the studies on nutrition for cardiovascular disease are on things like plant-based diets and Mediterranean diets. And I do like a Mediterranean diet. There's actually data on that for things like cal protectin and gut health, but we are obviously limited to what we have good quality trials for. Yeah. And there's a myriad of different healthy diets. Just like you know what works for one person isn't always going to work for another person. If we look at even for medications and side effects, right? Just because something is one in a thousand doesn't mean it never happens. Somebody has to be that one in a thousand, right? If you look at um statin induced diabetes, I actually came across a post on Twitter or X the other day by uh a physician who's also a PhD uh makes some you know reasonably good content um nutrition made simple and he was detailing his year-long experience with statins trying to find a balance of um APOB lowering without causing his insulin and glucose to go up. >> Definitely. >> And he's actually not an anti-statin. I think he's a a very pro-statin, a pro medication physician, >> but he was just detailing his experience and saying, you know, hey, this happened and I'm going to keep an eye on my glucose cuz usually it's in the 70s, but now it's a bit higher. >> So, I mean, you can look at these things in yourself and see, you know, am I having problems from this? So just because you see like most people are not having >> diabetic um induction of diabetes or insulin resistance caused by statins doesn't mean it won't happen for a particular individual >> and the only way to know is probably not to just measure glucose but also to look at a fasting insulin. I think you're going to see changes there first before you see A1C go up for example. >> Yeah. I wonder what my fasting insulin would have been today after that doughnut eating competition yesterday. probably back to baseline. I wonder what your postprandial insulin would have been after the donut eating competition. >> Very high. I'll post my spike and drop on the CGM there. That'll be that'll be fun. >> I suppose we could talk about how many times we talked about various topics in this article. A lot of times you can just control plus F or command plus F and then the number of times that you talk about something talks about the importance of it. Now the caveat of this is this is specifically about lipid management and some of the biggest upsides and downsides are statins. But if you look at this chart, we mention statins a lot. >> Yeah. 79 times. But the interesting thing is I I don't think Novartis even has a statin. >> I don't know. I don't uh we should mention in the disclaimers Novartis did help pay for publishing. So publishing open access which Gillette Health has paid for in the past for our tele medicine article and our social trends and peed use article which will pop up here and there. Um we have we have eaten that cost. So, thank you to Novartis for paying that cost and helping with editing. Extremely helpful. But no, I don't think they have a Staten, but I also think that they're one of the um and you know, I'm obviously biased because they helped us with the editing of this, but um they seemed pretty altruistic in helping us with this. >> Yeah. I mean, I don't think they have I mean, you if you look at their cardiovascular pipeline, it, you know, competes with stats. So if you're trying to sort of straw them in our case and say, "Oh, it's, you know, a Novartis uh paper, so they're going to be pushing their medication mostly competes with PCSK9s." I would uh their product is in glycerin and they have another pipel like another molecule in the pipeline that's going to target LP little Avenly does. But I would say it's very similar upsides and downsides to PCSK9 inhibitors that are monoconal antibodies. It's not an inhibitor, but I call it a PCSK9 protein pretor. I told them that they could rebrand and think of it as that, but it's a once every six months once you do a loading dose medication. And uh statins are very commonly prescribed, but this has a minute amount of market share. Yep. And I'm just going to pull up some of your lipoprotein A values because I think this is something that we can tag along into this podcast. We can have this may actually be a modifiable risk factor. >> Could probably post them on Sage Bio. often include my very original ones from 2020 and before. >> What's the highest level that you've had? >> Um, I've had around 100 nanomal per liter and I think I've had 50 plus milligram per deciliter if I'm remembering the units right for the weight. But yeah, as far as the molar particle number, I know I've had around 100. 96 97 was one of them. And I've had a couple readings in the 20s and low30s recently. So I've cut it almost in fourths. I'll make sure I get all those uploaded and then post that trend line uh with with the new Sage Bio visualizer. >> Yeah, even if I'm looking at just the last four values, your most recent was 29.2 and if we go back, see here, this was 2023 you had a level of 66.8. eight. >> So you've cut that by over 50% which was a reduction from your all-time high level over 100. So you know they would call this a non-modifiable risk factor. But >> I know this is something you plan to post on at some point talking about you know what levers can actually be used there. And there's simple things like aspirin and nasin and of course discuss what the trade-offs are and the risks of those things because they're not all you know 100% risk-f free with your provider. >> Definitely. Uh, but I think that's something to highlight. You know, not a lot of people have had this tested. One, and then two, not a lot of people know that you can actually change it. >> Yeah, for those curious, I am not on a PCSK9 inhibitor or a PCSK9 protein pretor. And I'm actually not on nascin. Um, I do take niacinomides, various derivatives like NR from time to time. And I have been on a off and on a lowd dose aspirin. So, I always tell people it's obviously not aspirin for babies. You're not supposed to give kids aspirin unless they have rice syndrome or other rare uh vascular diseases, but um there are a lot of things that can help. And even many years in the past, I've taken DHEA, which I think might help some people in in certain scenarios, but we'll do a separate breakdown of that. >> Yeah. So, that's a bit of a teaser there. So, hopefully you found this valuable or at least certain sections of it. You people can always skip around based on the chapters. Um, and the publication will be linked in the description along with where you can get your lipoprotein A tested for $15. We actually don't make any money on that. Uh, but the short version is we don't make any money on that. That is just passing along a health service to the public because we want people to know their status and we really want to eliminate surprise heart attacks. with something like a CCTA or knowing some of these things, it should greatly reduce the incidence of these surprise heart attacks that no one saw coming. >> Yeah. Um, with that, I suppose that's a good enough summary of our somewhat surprise paper. We didn't really mention any teasers of this, but uh, please comment below with any questions or comments or what you would want us to write a review of or do a study of in the future. As always, thank you for your time and thank you for listening. May God bless you with health and happiness.
