# Sarms, False Advertising, & The HCG Diet | @proteinbrospodcast

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

What's the worst supplement craze? Peptides, pro hormones, stimulants, like the DMAA. >> Like the good old days. >> Wait, did you say the worst? >> DMA, brother. Maybe that's Is that the best? >> The best. >> Lean Pocket versus Hot Pocket, you know, or for example, like back in the day there was like, you know, it's got whole grain. >> Good analogy, >> you know. Yeah. >> The whole grain does not matter that much. I uh when you when you sell supplements so often you have to take things that people are familiar with. So I am huge on the analogies. It's not like uh just from years and years and years of trying to make um things make sense really quickly to people who have not spent their entire you know adult life looking at labels. >> I do I do actually despise what is happening in the industry right now. not in the fitness industry, more in general grocery industry of >> we're gonna throw random amounts of protein into things. And that's going to be the marketing point that we hammer on. >> And it takes advantage of the general population not understanding how much protein they should be consuming and also what it takes to stimulate muscle protein synthesis and make protein like really beneficial. Not that like you know if somebody you know it's just it it's a pure marketing ploy. It's driving up the cost of whey protein. It's driving up the you know the price of of um you know actually making supplements that people use that are that are effectively dosed. Um and I kind of look at at just like the low carb craze, the low fat craze. It's like now we're on the high protein craze. And it's um >> I'm just over it at this point in my life when I see like those trends happening grocery. It it's um disheartening. So >> yeah. Which one do you think was the worst? Low carb, lowfat or high protein? >> There was also kind of a high fiber craze for period. >> I grew up um >> that one was actually pretty reasonable. I grew up in the low-fat era of the 90s and uh you know the the actual the old uh nutritional period or pyramid, sorry. It would be like uh six to 11 carbs at the bottom, you know, a day and then >> several loaves of bread. >> That's right. You need it because you need it, you know, >> get your whole grain >> you need the possible still stick to. >> Yeah. You need the highest margin, lowest, you know, >> carb load every day, >> lowest nutritional value stuff as your base, you know. So any I just remember uh my mom grew up in overeaters anonymous actually and so we had a very like dietconscious um household but not a health focused household. So it was always the person trying to lose weight >> um as like the basis of the groceries that we bought. And so I was around really heavily paying attention to the low-fat stuff. And then it was wild because I think directly after that it was the was the Atkins and South Beach diet craze that started and so it was just flipping it on its head, you know, Subway was coming out with wraps because no one wanted to eat bread for a while, you know. And so the worst out of all of them though, I would say um was the lowfat craze because fat is flavor and so you were just sacrificing so much flavor. uh like you know 98% fat-free Cheezits and you know that stuff still exists to a certain degree but I'm glad to see most of it being gone. >> Yeah. I mean my my opinion on that is all of it is just trying to manipulate calories right to the point where you know you can be not in a calorie surplus and a calorie deficit or you know in a moderate calorie amount. And um I don't know, it's you see so many like because we've been in the supplement industry and the health industry for such a long period of time, you see um these trends happen and it's like it always goes to the most extreme. It's like it's not just like low carb now. It's like we got to be in ketosis >> with supplements too >> and we also got to we got to completely uh you know now we're doing carnivore diet and things like that. >> What's the worst supplement craze? peptides, pro hormones, stimulants, the DMAA, >> like the good old days. >> Wait, did you say the worst? >> DMAA, brother. >> Maybe that's Is that the best? >> That's the best. >> Well, you you probably could tell us uh what what specific uh issues there were with DMAA in a deeper level. >> Yeah, that's a side effect. They want to keep us weak. >> I there we we've been through so many different uh phases like >> you know what jumps to mind though? Well, I mean, I think about like when I first started in the supplement industry, there was the HCG diet. >> Do you remember this? >> I do remember that. >> That was a good one because we were in Springfield, Missouri, and it was like it swept over Springfield, Missouri. It was huge. And uh you'd get people would come in, they'd be like, "Oh, you know, I'm just doing the hcg diet. I take these hCG shots and then I eat 50 calories a day and I've been losing weight like crazy." And I'm like, "Have you ever thought that it's just you're eating 50 calories a day?" Like, that's insane. The actual number was 500. They wanted you to eat. I'm just saying like that was legitimately the diet. The hCG diet was take some of this H these hCG shots which >> then drops the drops. >> They ended up taking it orally, >> right? So, so it starts off with shots, right? But because that barrier of entry was too high and too difficult to get people to actually do >> you can't multi-level market, you know, shots like that. >> So, let's do shots at that time. Now, then it went to drops. And so then it became possible to get these HCG drops like at Walmart as as like on the end cap like as you're checking out like I might as well start this. I heard something about hCG. Let's give it a shot which clearly like wasn't HCG. >> Uh and then also if you as we all know if you eat 500 calories a day you're going to see results. >> Um but the trends that like that's really tough like I think hCG has to be the worst because of what it made you do as far as extremes on your calories. Yeah. and the rebounds that would come from that and potential just eating disorders that probably evolved from that being a part of that journey for the person that started it >> to go from losing a drastic amount of weight from eating such a drastically low amount of calories to trying to go back to some sense of normaly >> I don't know how you do it without not without rebounding um >> it's ridiculous they picked hCG they should have picked testosterone >> right >> should have done that >> testosterone drop >> they were they were banning that at the same time as they were approving the hCG drops but >> I am I'm curious on um like more recently with the SARMs, right? That I feel like a couple years ago you saw that like some supplement companies and stores were like selling these as supplements >> even though it's still going on because I was going to ask has there been a crackdown or is that still happening? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. The you know the world of you know especially like mom and pop oneoff retail stores um it is like what can I get away with? And if you only have one store and you aren't selling online or promoting these things online, you can get away with a lot of things for an extended period of time with gray area type stuff. I mean, we've lived through >> a lot of competitors have come and gone over the years that have done this for, you know, year a time, two years at a time, but eventually >> it's shortsighted. Basically, people get, you know, shortsighted. They're like, "Oh, you know, this is popular. I, you know, I can get it in. I can sell it. It's got high margin to it. um you know this kid's 15 but oh well you know that's what people do and um so and we've live we've lived through you know two of the pro hormone bands that happened the crackdowns that happened you know with the FDA but the SARM the SARM thing >> there's still a couple that are are pretty widely found would be ostine and >> ostine's a sarm yeah >> that's the one that you'd see like you could probably still find relatively easy in the sense of like I'm sure in every market, there's somebody selling it. >> If there is a gray, if there is a, you know, um, not for human consumption lab producing it, there is a retail store somewhere selling it would be my guess. >> Um, we've, as a company, we've always just known that there'll be trends like that that come and go. And, um, you know, the the quick money grabs are not worth the the risk involved in it. And plus, it's like, are we really about health and and wellness or are we about, you know, these these great We talked about this yesterday on the podcast, but it's like, you don't know how these things are being produced. Um, you know, you can't you can't stand behind the product. You can't stand behind the results of the product. So, it's like why would you sell the product outside of it's just a cash grab. So, >> to answer your guys's question a little bit more too on the I wanted to jump in on the other crazes that, you know, I wouldn't like and I'm glad to see this is like mostly gone. Uh but uh Dr. Oz recommended supplements >> got like a wild wave for a few years. You remember Dr. Oz the show? >> I know Dr. Oz like I've seen like a TV segment where there was like a diagram of an artery, right? And he like poured something on it and then the plaque just melts away. Of >> course, that's right. I mean, so to to Kyle's point about like it's like the middle-aged woman that came in for the hCG drop, that that same customer would literally buy anything Dr. Oz would say. And when when people who are that who have that level of influence speak so carelessly about the the diet and the exercise aspect, they don't really bring it up uh of what needs to happen. So, Garcinia Cambosia. Uh, I could be, you know, don't come after me if I'm pronouncing these incorrectly. >> Green coffee bean extract. >> It was Garcinia Cambosia. And then I would say maybe Kolius Forscolin. >> Um, but those were the ones that Yeah. But he would really get behind a couple of those. And it was just like back in the day the Oprah effect on things when if Oprah mentioned it or now if Taylor Swift's wearing it, all that kind of stuff. If Dr. After us said it, it took, you know, no more than one month before you would see it uh be for $9.99. >> Basically, had to increase our orders on all these things. And then, you know, we're sending out continuing education to our staff about it to basically like, hey, you know, educate fully on like what does this do? And >> that ingredient is very common actually. It's in a lot of our products, but it's a lot of things, >> but it's amongst 10 other ingredients that would be really working well synergistically with that ingredient by itself. But, >> you know, our product would have these 10 other ingredients. to be $24.99, but they're like, "Oh, I can get this at Sam's Club on the end cap for, you know, $7.99 and it's like, you know, tenth of the dose that you need." It's just no no different than I would say. We probably could tell, you know, a good fish oil from a bad fish oil, but they both say fish oil. >> Yes. >> Right. Right. >> Yeah. So, that's the old version. If people see something on TV and they're coming into your stores asking about it, what about now? Like is there any are there any giveaways? If someone comes in and you're like, "This person definitely got all their supplement info from Tik Tok." >> Uh that's that's steroids now. >> They say, "Hi, can I get one steroid?" >> That's definitely peptides. >> There's been there's been a uh there's been a unlocking of basically like the okay to talk about um you know, excessive steroid use online. Um, I think that probably started with like Rich Piana um was one of the first guys that was like gonna openly talk about um steroid use and it kind of snowballed >> like posted his protocols. >> Yeah. >> Which was unfounded at the time, >> right? Yeah. Even Derek in or like his early videos like listening I'm not comparing those two because one was educational and one was like pure entertainment. >> Definitely a cultural trend. >> It was it was it was something that was happening where it was like people were just being more honest. Like there was there was people that were uh that I don't know until like you know 2013 14 a lot of people were still running around thinking like Arnold Schwarzenegger didn't do steroids you know like they would argue that with you or like John Cena is not on steroids >> and it kind of just pulled that veil back and I think it's gone way too far the other way in some instances because I will come across social media pages where it's you know these 19-year-old kids with acne that has just blown their back up and you know they're talking about their protocols and you're looking at this stuff and you're like >> my gosh what are you guys doing and um so anyways yeah you you see trends like that on uh on social media now and I think that that that can be the negative side of trends that are happening online but then you have like the content that you guys produce you have like the content that Hubberman produces or Peter Aia and that's like good content you know that that people are producing and so um but there isn't there is this sped up uh you talk to a lot more young people now that think they have it all figured out because they listen to a podcast and sometimes you know it's uh there's lived experience that goes along with it too and and basically doing things repetitively over time that that can help people like understand like okay this is the lifestyle pattern that you know actually works for me talking about you know if you're talking low carb you know highfat or whatever you know diet that they're choosing so >> cultural trends can be positive or negative or neutral. >> Right. >> You mentioned that diet and exercise is a big part of your company culture, which I think is pretty obvious to pretty much everybody that lives near a supplement supertore. I think you sponsor every single fitness competition, Patriots run, CrossFit competition that I've ever been to. And I'm not sure how you do that because it's seems like it's like that's a lot of sponsorship. Um, but I hope that you get like really good return on that and thank you for doing that for the community. But you obviously uh own and manage supplement superstores. So uh how have you emphasized the diet and exercise piece within the culture of your both the like clients and employees? >> You want to take that or >> Yeah. I mean for us it's a it's a foundational principle and it kind of goes back to like authenticity. um it you have you have diet and exercise which are the most important things and supplements sit on top of that. It's not the other way around. And um we get a lot of people that'll come into our stores and they think it's the other way around. They think, you know, you you get to talking to somebody and they're like, "Yeah, I'm going to get back into it and blah blah blah. You know, I just need this and this and this." And you're like, "Oh, where you working out at?" "Oh, I don't you know, I don't really work." I'm like, >> "Hey, that's >> we're talking step one there. you need to be that needs to be the highest priority. Um but when it comes to like our culture, um I think we just we have a holistic look at like what what does it mean to be healthy? You know, as a company, what does it mean to be healthy and what does it mean to be a participant in in the local health scene? Um if you if when you when we say we want to make a better um local health scene um local health culture, well who who are the other companies that are really going to get behind and sponsor those things if it's not us, right? We basically just want to put our money where our mouth is when it comes to local fitness. And um you know, the same thing goes with our guys, too. We kind of look at the the culture we bring young people into is is somewhat shaping the way that they look at fitness for the rest of their lives, you know, because a lot of the guys we hire or girls we hire, they're relatively young. They're coming out of, you know, high school. They might be finishing college. Um they're they're they're creating the habits they're going to have the rest of their life. And so when they come to work for us, they're basically a free agent when it comes to habits. Some of them are really into working out. some of them are, you know, uh but >> you know, if we can put them in a culture that is encouraging working out, encouraging, you know, healthy habits, encouraging the right things as far as diet goes, um and not just supplements on top of that, that that is foundational to our to to who we are. That's part of our ethos as a company. And um I think it from a young person's standpoint too, people like that. They want to be a part of something. and they want to be a part. You know, going to work every day with people that have similar um a similar value system when it comes to health and fitness is is it's one of the things that's made me um love what we do for such a long period of time and and enjoy what we do and made me, you know, stay working for supplement superto, you know, for almost 20 years at this point. So, >> yeah, I love that you can list uh adding years to your life as one of the benefits uh to add on. >> As I've gotten older, that has become far more valuable to me. In the beginning, it was just big biceps. But, uh, you know, to to add on to what Kyle said, I I would just say that, you know, all that is very true. And from a business standpoint, I would say that, um, you know, the why behind being at all of those events and the the why do we make the the diet and the exercise a big foundation piece of what we speak with when our customers come in or when we're dealing with the employees? It's pretty simple. Um, supplements unfortunately have a negative stereotype that they are to um, shortcut you to your results. They're there to, you know, kind of be a hack. And, um, some people dismiss the value of diet and exercise. And unfortunately, uh, with supplements, people will jump to using those versus doing the habits they need to do. And so when our business is actually predicated on building real relationships with our customers, remembering their name, remembering their goals, um being an added layer of accountability for them, um if you're thinking long term with every person that you meet, well then you got to address the diet and exercise immediately. >> And the reason why I think that a lot of supplement stores have had a bad name and unfortunately why a lot of people don't trust um supplement stores in general. So we don't get a lot of trust when customers first come in >> if they've never been in before. and it's purely because when they've been talked to about supplements in the past, someone wasn't addressing those issues and they were looking at how many supplements they could sell that person uh that was overpromising and underdeling. And so >> one of our core values as a company is accept responsibility. And we ask our team to accept responsibility for some of the negatives that others have probably given these customers. So don't take it personal when a customer has a wall up. Don't take it personal when a customer doesn't trust you when they first come in. We have no idea what their past is like when it comes to supplements and how they've been sold or what they've tried. And so it's up to us to try to build that trust and as long as it takes. It might take three visits, four visits, five visits, but if you have genuine good intent about truly trying to help people with our mission statement literally being get people results, make people happy, help people, period. Uh if you really think like that, you're going to win long term in business and in life. >> It's a great takeaway. Same thing happens with doctors as well. Yeah, it's kind of a crazy like scenario, right? If you think about your medical care, like you go in and see someone as a new doctor, like you've never seen this person before and they're going to be asking you the most personal questions >> and you're expected to just like open up and be like, "Oh yeah, this is my whole medical history. This is what I'm struggling with. It's a very vulnerable thing." So, I can imagine it's the same thing if somebody's been, >> you know, bit before, ripped off at a supplement store. They're going to come in and they're going to have a big degree of hesitancy. And like you said, it can take some time to build that rapport, >> right? >> Yeah. >> The uh the line that we teach really quickly is uh people don't care what you know until they know you care. >> It's a good takeaway. Well, let's see if we have some protein drinks and protein pasta to try.
