# Is Testosterone Really The #1 Steroid?

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

Um, I give this uh would say eight out of 10, but let's go with a tier. >> Okay. For the medication, >> I would put this in S tier. So, I actually disagree. >> Let's move on. Uh, let's start with what is that? Empower testosterone cipionate. Are we are we also trying to rank the bottle or are we just saying, hey, any compounded testosterone cipionate? Because if we're ranking the bottle, there are some sketchy looking bottles up there. >> All right, so testosterone cipionate uh compounded as a medication. Um I give this uh would say eight out of 10, but let's go with a tier. >> Okay, for the medication, >> I would put this in S tier. So I actually disagree. Um I don't know why you would put it in a tier. >> Tends to be a little runs a little hot, right? So the dosage like you get from compounded tends to be a little bit higher >> compared to commercial testosterone >> cipionate. >> So compounded testosterone cypionate is definitely an A tier. I like that. Um the commercial variety is not overdosed. I like how you said it runs hot. >> Yeah, it's a little spicy. >> Yeah, it's more often than not it's going to be higher than than lower. They put in a little extra uh chili powder or whatnot. But anyways, uh you know some benefits of compounded thinner viscosity carrier oils. Easier to drop, easier to inject. You can get a compounded MCT oil. >> Cost is actually lower generally. >> Yeah, that's true. So, lots of upsides to this. A 10ml vial at a, you know, physiologic dose of 150 milligrams a week. That's, you know, 12 bucks per month. That's pretty darn good deal. Um I guess it's pretty similar for commercial though. One thing that we did not put on this tier list is DHEA. Um, I would put DHEA in D tier. D for DHEA. Yeah, I'd probably have to give it a C tier because as many people as I've seen with hair shedding or skin issues or irritability, like it seems to cause more roid side effects than actual steroids, >> there are also people who just anecdotally, you know, swear that they feel amazing while taking it. Yeah, true. It has a very um >> uh the experience of taking it is really variable. I would say it's like a mystery multiplier. >> Yeah. And generally I don't use DHEA unless there's a very specific reason not to. Uh for example um if someone is having a very low DHEA 50 makes them a better candidate for lowd dose DHEA or if maybe they have a high LP little A and a super high SHBG maybe DHEA is reasonable if there's not a there's just better alternatives. That's why it's not great. Um if we didn't have any other androgen we'd probably use DHEA all the time. >> Yeah. And isn't DHEA still banned by like WADA and the Olympic Committee because it's per potentially performance-enhancing? >> Yeah. And I think it's a controlled med in Canada, but it's over the counter here. It's very strange. [music]
