# Shoulder Pain: Is surgery always the answer?

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

How do surgeons expand their Ferrari and Lambo collections if they're talking people out of laboral labor room surgeries? Well, Dr. Dan Gurley, I get a lot of questions from patients and things that I am not an expert in, believe it or not. And sometimes these questions are about myself. For example, I asked chat GPT to AI the other day, what is my most likely next severe or significant injury. I put in my family history, which some of it, you know, um, and I put in, you know, my height, my weight, the sports that I've have done that I'm going to do, what I've rehabbed myself from, for example, my Achilles tendonitis, and uh, it's spat out Achilles rupture. So, I didn't like that. I thought it was going to say some sort of shoulder injury given that I do CrossFit. >> Yeah. >> What do you think about that? Is chat GPT wrong? Is it partly right? >> That's a good question. I've never I haven't experimented with it in that uh in that realm looking for predictions like that. Um I would say the Achilles tendonite my own experience um Achilles tendonitis leading to an Achilles rupture. Uh that was my story. I've torn both of my Achilles and uh I can remember making a getting a night splint to try to keep uh keep my Achilles and my planter fascia stretched overnight to uh because my rehab wasn't quite getting it where I wanted to be and it was not too long after that that I had my rupture. So that's my story. I would say it's not uncommon for people to say they've had some kind of Achilles tenitis before their rupture. So, I can understand why the why the AI might uh point you in that direction. Um, you know, it's interesting what you do to to prevent Achilles ruptures. You know, we have more advanced things like I think we were talking a little bit off offline about PRP. Um, you know, there I don't know if you ever heard the story of u pometrics in Achilles um rehab. There was the story as I've heard it it's called Alfredson's protocol and Alfredson was a medical student or a resident somewhere in Germany >> and he had Achilles tenonitis and wanted the uh attending to fix his Achilles and he wouldn't do it because they couldn't be a man down >> and so he kept jumping off the stairs trying to tear his Achilles >> and the plyometric work actually made him better. So uh so yeah it seems counterproductive to do uh you know high velocity Achilles uh plyometrics but that may be >> maybe maybe that could be part of your program. >> Yeah. uh as part of my prehab, so my uh pre- recurrent Achilles tendonitis protocol, I do the box drops where I drop off the box, often landing on one leg. >> And I also do lots of things like box jumps and >> uh burpee jumps, all sorts of things. Yeah, >> with my shoulder. Um, you know, I'm I think I'm pretty smart with my shoulder. So, I do, you know, the protocol you see where you lay on the floor and then you push backward and then you do different angles with your arms. >> I do the banded things. And I'm also working on >> um like banded joint mobilizations and whatnot. But um you know occasionally my wife makes me compete at CrossFit competitions like we did Saturday where Drew the media guy was at. And uh of course given that I have ape arms like this. Um you know I I don't like butterfly pull-ups which are the ones that you look like a floppy fish but you can do about 20 in about 10 seconds. So you you're way faster with them. And of course the bars are so short um at almost every gym that you know my my knees are like this so my legs aren't uh you know crouching against the ground but my shoulders do hurt after these. And I see a lot of athletes and you know a lot of times I will do something like PRP for this. Uh in fact a lot of my PMR uh friends that work for CrossFit they call it hot shoulder or crossfit shoulder. Surely you've seen this. We definitely see, you know, the CrossFitters are pretty good at getting their shoulders fired up. Um, yeah, the between the number of lifts they do and the intensity and the the velocity, uh, a lot of people find their limits with that. >> In order to prevent it, other than not doing the activity, I mean, one analogy I heard is it's only for competition purposes. It's like a a head-on football tackle. uh head-on football tackles, not head-to-head, but like shoulder-to-shoulder. There's that's not improving your health, but for the purpose of the sport, I guess you have to do it. So, you know, I think at non- elite competitions, they should um never allow butterfly pull-ups. A little bit of a kip is probably okay. Um correct me if I'm wrong. >> Yeah, that sounds like sounds like pretty good advice. Um but um you know for someone that's in my situation or in the situation of my friend you know she saw a uh orthopedic doc and um you know they said well uh my shoulder hurts from doing these uh pull-ups and crossfit activities and u this and they're like well how'd you hurt it? Well, um I have no specific injury, just been doing CrossFit for a long time. And the orthopedic doc says, "Scribe, write that down. Is it important that she did CrossFit or is this or is was that person just looking for something to blame it on?" >> That's a good question. I can't can't really read their mind, but I suppose maybe they have a little bit of an extra grind that they've seen a lot of CrossFit injuries and wanted to chart it. Maybe they're doing research and want to want to know uh that you make sure CrossFit's included in their in their records for for that. I you know, I'd be speculating. I don't know. >> Mhm. When it comes to the shoulder, a lot of people ask me, well, when is it time for imaging? Um, and I know there's kind of been this push back against imaging because so many people come to the people, physicians like yourself, surgeons like yourself, and they say, "Well, uh, I am 65 years old, and I want to stay active, and don't worry, I've already got the MRI. I have torn rotator cuff and labreum. So, can you just go ahead and patch those up?" Uh, what what does that patient need to know before they jump in and get these things done? Well, the first thing I always say is we treat patients and not pictures. So, I want to talk to them. I want to do a physical exam. I want to see where they're weak, see where their motion loss is, what their what their actual deficits are, so we can address those specifically because, uh, I would say in a 65-year-old, I'm not going to touch their labum. Uh there's a pretty good study out there that people aged 40 to 70 with no shoulder pain um that got MRIs had about 70 to 70 I forget the number 70 or 75% had laboral tears. >> And so I don't think laboral tears over 40 are really all that clinically significant. Uh I talk people out of labor all the time when they're in that over 40 range. Uh but rotator cuff if they're if they have a deficit, if they have weakness, they have pain, they haven't been able to u you know make any ground with non non-operative care, um I think that's a can be a pretty successful way to get them fixed. >> How do surgeons expand their Ferrari and Lambo collections if they're talking people out of laboral labor room surgeries? >> Well, you know, first do no harm, right? What I've seen over >> they keep their licenses. What I've seen over my practice is uh you start fixing labor laboral tears in people that are you know over 3540 particularly 40 uh you end up with a lot of stiffness. You know the labum the labram's job is to prevent instability. When you have a laboral tear it creates instability a loose shoulder shoulder that's popping out. >> Um it's very uncommon to see a 65year-old with a loose shoulder that's popping out. Most people as they age into their 60s and beyond have actually lost range of motion have a shoulder that's stiffer that doesn't move as well. If I go in and do a tightening procedure and fix their labum, I've actually made them worse by making them tight and giving them potentially more pain or less function. >> Would you fix a labum in a very young patient with Ellers's Danlos or on the hypermobility spectrum? >> Well, yeah, you just added a big old variable in there. Um, yeah, the the hyper mobile Aaylor Stanlo folks, um, yeah, if they're I would say it's rare for them to have a labor room tear. They're usually loose without a tear. >> Uh, that's that's a more common scenario. But if they did have a laboral tear, yeah, I'd fix it. And I would be um humble in the thought that u that's going to make them better for a while, but it's likely that their instability is still going to be present. Yeah, there's somebody out there with EDS that's about to comment. Hold my beer. I got a labum tear after the Anyways, I've also heard that certain people, maybe those same hyper mobile people shouldn't squat below parallel or they should only go to a right angle or 90 degrees. What can you tell people um you know outside of specific contraindications about those deep butt to the ground squats? I don't I don't call that a contraindication, you know, having a a hyper mobile person doing a deeper squat. I mean, it it comes down to a lot of, you know, what's your training, what's your technique, are you are you using good form, are you using weights that you can handle and maintain your good form. I don't know that going deep is necessarily something you have to avoid. Um, there's a lot of people who can't do it well and it causes them pain and you have to listen to your body >> as well. for people who are not injured, let's say myself or a friend, we're doing a heavy deadlift, which I actually think is if you're doing a truly max effort deadlift, um, and this is at a heavy weight, I think it's actually impossible to use perfect form. Um, do you think it's reasonable when people come up to us and tell us, hey, uh, you got to like watch your back or watch your form there. um that we just say if you can lift heavier than me, go ahead and lift and then you can complain. So I I just like to tell people you can complain about my form if you can lift more than me. Is that reasonable or is that just someone waiting to break their back out if they're lifting with good form with submaximal efforts? >> Well, I mean to say that the only way you have the right to complain about somebody's form is to is to do more than them. I mean, that's, you know, you just disqualified every, you know, high school track coach, uh, because they can't run faster than their, uh, than their athletes. >> Probably most of them, >> right? Most of them. So, I mean, you don't necessarily have you can be a good coach without necessarily being able to to do more than what your athlete can do. Um, maybe you did at one time. >> That's reasonable. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. Back in the glory days, I used to, you know, binge three plates when I was a high school football player. Yeah. >> But then I I guess what's a good excuse for no longer moving and doing exercise? Like presumably not like if you get a pec tear, you can still do some things with pushing exercise. But as far as like general movement, is there something, for example, a knee injury that would preclude you from ever doing a body weight squat again? I don't think there's anything that would automatically preclude you from doing that. I mean, if you had a patellar tendon rupture, might be a long time before you're going to do that. Uh, you know, like my folks who have quad tendon ruptures are usually a little bit older. You know, those guys doing a deep squat, it's probably unlikely that that's going to happen. >> Could you rehab yourself and and get to a point of doing that? I'm all for it if you can. Uh, I would say the likelihood is relatively low. >> For people who have had a a pretty bad patellar tendon rupture, is there something that can help accelerate their healing? Peptides, intraoperative PRP, um, you know, to prevent muscle loss, should those people consider HRT, hormone replacement, if their levels are are not great? My understanding of the the literature on that is testosterone replacement if you're low is probably the best studied and best supported of all the things that you said. Um you know the the peptides um some of the other things. I think there's a lot of promise there. Uh but I don't know if we I don't know that I know the answer today. I hope that we do know that answer soon. um you know PRP in the O you know there's studies that say it's dilitterious there's studies that say that it's helpful it's it's kind of all over the map and you know is it >> what kind of PRP and what system and what you know what's your real pllet concentration I mean all those things there's so many variables it's hard to study that and then compare it to >> to your own practice in your own situation >> I had someone last month give me a shout out on the Joe Rogan podcast they said hey Kyle help me with my shoulder. I'm so glad I didn't get surgery because if I got surgery on my shoulder, it'd be permanently messed up. And you know, this this is just something that someone said publicly. People can go look it up. Um but you know, that's uh certainly not the case. And you know, the telephone game sometimes it's hard to say, I can't believe this doctor told me that um because I have torn my rotator cuff, I should no longer do overhead pressing movements. So um you know we understand that within our profession is things get slightly changed and that's okay but um are there specific shoulder injuries where people should go seek out orthopedic surgery or orthopedic care in order to preserve function of that in the long run? >> Well I do a lot of rotator cuff surgery. Um I think that the studies are most there are pretty good studies that show that uh rotator cuff injuries uh rotator cuff tears tend to progress over time. Uh I think it was out of WashU and St. Louis. They did a long longitudinal study with ultrasound and they showed progression of tear size over time. Uh there's also some pretty good data that says that rotator cuff tears that have been neglected or have been put off and there's muscle atrophy. You can get to the point of rotator cuff atrophy where there's fibrosis in the muscle that even if we put it back where it came from, that fibrosis is somewhat of a non-reversible or an irreversible problem where you can't get that full rotator cuff strength back. So in my mind, yeah, try whatever your your favorite way of trying to uh do your own first aid is it if it's ice and rest and anti-inflammatories and compression and you know activity modifications um you know see see your physician, your healthcare provider and and but if you're not getting better there's often you know it's not unreasonable to think of a surgical answer. I have a lot of patients. I, you know, thank I've been doing this a long time and I think if all my patients were permanently changed for the worse, I probably wouldn't still be able to do this >> definitely >> week in and week out. >> Yeah. No, I I certainly agree. U to somewhat play devil's advocate for a patient that is, you know, perhaps 70 years old and they're not sure when they tore their rotator cuff. perhaps that there was some symptom onset pretty recently other than examine imaging and history. Is there a general rule of thumb to say um you know after this age you don't fix as many rotator cuffs or is there a general rule of thumb to say this many weeks or months after you think you've injured it is most helpful to consider surgical option. I don't have an absolute age where I would say rotator cuff is a bad idea, but I would say you start approaching 80, it's unlikely that the cost benefit ratio, not not just financial cost, but just cost to your own life risk. Uh it probably it's hard to see the benefit of going through an operation because a rotator cuff surgery is three months of pretty intense recovery and then you know another six to nine months of of recovery. It can take a year. You know the value ad of taking an 85year-old and putting them through your recovery for their rotator cuff. You have to really have a hard conversation about that as far as time from injury to surgery or injury to it's been too long. You know, a year or two gets to be pretty long. That's when that atrophy really sets in, particularly in an older patient. Uh not that I haven't taken care of those folks, but but those are more challenging, higher risk, higher rerupture rate. Uh, you know, I I'm thrilled when I see somebody in the first month or two months with an injury. I think those do so much better. >> But, um, >> you know, as you know, people walk in the office whenever they walk in the office. >> Yeah. They've done two years of stem cell treatments and chiropractic medicine, >> right? which for a lot of people that might be the right answer but but yeah sometimes we catch them in a hole where now there's some things that become really difficult to to overcome. >> You mentioned that for those who need it hormone replacement therapy or testosterone replacement therapy could be a very good option for preserving function. I have heard that and you know this this might be true. This is all of these are legitimate questions. Some of them I'm just playing devil's advocate that if your muscle becomes strong too quickly because on average it maybe it takes six weeks to have a significant hypertrophy muscle building effect and uh perhaps the tendon reorganization and collagen organization takes six months or more or much longer that your muscles become too strong for your tendons and you're going to increase your risk of things like Achilles ruptures or patellar tendon ruptures or even rotator cuff. Is there a lot of truth to that? And is there specific things that people should do? Like what I did, which I think is reasonable when I started CrossFit. Um it was all new movements and I just took it nice and easy for the first six months. I let my tendons and ligaments and body adapt to it. Mostly range of motion. I got my hard workouts elsewhere. Is there something that people should do if they start a new training modality or start hormone replacement? >> You know, I like what you said about your own experience of, you know, not trying to win the championship in the first month is a pretty good rule of thumb. Um, testosterone replacement therapy, creating, you know, peak muscle force that your tendon can't handle. I see that probably more in the anabol anabolic steroid world rather than the testosterone world. But um I suppose that's a theoretical, but that that hasn't been my experience. Um but yeah, as you're starting something new and you know, a new movement, a new uh regimen, you know, be it crossfit or a martial art or something that you haven't really done much of before, um you know, your body has to adapt to that. And you know, don't try to >> Yeah. Don't try to do too much too soon. >> I've always thought those using performance-enhancing steroids, supraphysiologic amounts tend to be on anti-estrogens, aromatase inhibitors, synthetic anabolics that decrease the conversion to estrogen. And I think that there's a very reasonable theoretical link between deficient estrogen levels and looking great and dry all the time, but also not having healthy tendons, >> right? So I I think that's certainly part of the risk, but like you mentioned, it's hard to parse that out, but we see we both see it anecdotally >> for sure. >> A lot of female athletes specifically get AC joint inflammation and also distal clavicle osteolyis. Um some people call it female weightlifter shoulder. >> Other than maybe modifying your bench press technique or different overhead movements. How can people prevent this or treat this? Yeah, prevention I don't know. Um I I usually get catch up with it when it's already happening and we're seeing it, >> you know, in the clinic and seeing it on imaging. Um I I don't have a good answer for pre prevention strategies. I will say that I'm I'm very slow to consider anything surgical for that. I think it's a um I refer to it as kind of a nuisance pain. It hurts. It affects your ability to thrive. Uh but it's not a lifealtering as far as you know going to cause major disability. Um so I'm I'm fine with you whatever symptomatic treatment we can do to try to keep them going. Uh in my own practice I do a lot of corticosteroid injections uh for that. If we can if we can get the inflammation down and take the pain away you can keep working out and keep going and because the worst thing that happens is the operation to fix that which they're already a candidate when they walk through the door. So, um, I kind of look at it as a as a lowrisk way, you know, to let you keep going. Um, and my football players, um, that have maybe more of an acute AC separation, >> um, I look at that kind of the same way as, you know, if it's not an a truly unstable AC separation, u, I've been known to do local anesthetic for game time. You know, just go ahead and numb it so they can play. uh and we've been fairly successful in some players doing that. The one caveat was my uh my quarterback who had had a previous clavicle fracture. I don't think I took into account that maybe some of his tissue planes were modified because of his clavicle fracture. And so when I when I filled his AC joint up with local an long acting local anesthetic, it percolated down to his supercapular nerve and took his rotator cuff away. >> Which is a really bad idea on game day. >> Yeah. >> He didn't get to play that day. >> That does not sound great. >> Yeah. When the first two snaps he couldn't raise his hand to catch it catch the shotgun snap, we had to pull him and put the uh backup in. >> So that's uh that's something that still kind of haunts me several years later. Hm. Good to know. It's an interesting case. Um, if you've met my wife Maddie, um, you'll know that she's kind of built like a linebacker. And, you know, I maybe I want to retire someday. Maybe she can go play rugby or something. I don't want her to get a concussion. But, interestingly, she had a clavicle fracture when she was born. She was a massive baby. >> Mhm. >> And got stuck and whatnot, but it made her a really good javelin and discus thrower because kind of that little bit of asymmetry. Fortunately, she hasn't had AC joint issues and you know, she has these massive thick thick Achilles tendons and these extremely big ankles and calves. So, I'm not too worried about um injury of Achilles tendon if she plays rugby. But I am worried about ACL's because I know that although female rugby players have a lot less injuries than male rugby players, people can debate why. Probably because they're playing against females, right? Um, can you assess like, you know, I feel like I can kind of look at someone and somewhat assess their risk of a certain type of injury except ACL than if they look female, I consider them higher risk. Is there any other way that someone can assess their ACL risk? >> I don't know that there's a score sheet per se where we can, you know, do these series of tests and say you're, you know, 2.6% 6% higher risk or you know 2.6 times more likely. I do know that there are you know one of the modifiable factors that we can do. You know we can't change if you have a valgus alignment to your knee you know if you're more knocked that that's one of your risk factors. >> Uh for females there was been a lot of study on where where in the ovulation cycle uh and they're in the menstrual cycle ACL ruptures uh occur. Well, we're not going to sit women out of sports for a week or two every month. Uh so there's, you know, there's things that we can't really modify, but what we can modify, there's these pretty well, uh validated neuromuscular training programs. Uh there was one that uh our physical therapy program was involved in for a while called Girls Can Jump. And that there's some variability in the in general the way uh females jump and land. They tend to be more uh straightlegged in activities rather than in more, you know, you used the word linebacker earlier, kind of a linebacker stance where you're bent knee butt but butt down kind of positioning that >> in general women tend to be a little more knocked and straightlegged. >> Again, these are terrible stereotypes which I hate hate to be saying on the air, but better than nothing. But but u but you know if we can learn to play in more of a bent knee butt down kind of position that's probably ACL protective and and the there's some fairly well validated u programs like that. >> Yeah. Well that seems very actionable. >> Yes. >> Last question. I have a friend that has had many ACL surgeries. You did his last one more than five years ago now. Not to jinx it. Oh wood. Yeah. And it seems like there's this certain subset of people who have had multiple ACL injuries. Presumably, they're doing this same type of thing. Do you think this is primarily genetic or bad luck or some other factor? We don't know yet. >> I think it's multiffactorial. Uh I think certainly there can be uh bad luck. There can be genetic. there can be uh the way they move you know neuromuscular uh you know training might help although physical therapy addresses that usually um I think there's also the concept uh in in any joint but knee in particular we talk about primary stabilizers and secondary stabilizers and there's kind of this diminishing returns the more times we fix an ACL >> the more the secondary stabilizers are also injured so your capsule gets stretched your meniscus gets torn your you know your collateral ligaments are, you know, are sprained, changed in some form. And so, >> uh, you know, instead of having five things holding your knee in place and just rep replacing the one that's torn, now we keep asking that ACL to do more and more because the secondary stabilizers aren't doing their job. >> Well, that is some fantastic information. Um, I really appreciate it and we'll post your information for those who want to see other things that you've done and link to your biography and whatnot. And finally, I hope that I never have to see you in clinic for an entry, but I would not be shocked. >> Sounds like a good plan. Didn't Didn't we see each other like in the lobby of a hospital one time when you had like a Was that an ankle or something? >> Yeah, I think I had a I know I had a broken ankle and then um at some point I had Uh maybe some patellofhemeral syndrome as well. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> I I remember meeting you and your mom and in the lobby of a hospital to look at something once upon a time. Yeah. >> Yeah. Probably my ankle. Probably my ankle or my knee. But yeah, fortunately uh since I've gone through my very late puberty and gross spurt and whatnot, uh I've been relatively injuryfree. >> So that was really >> Hopefully you can not inherit the bad genes that I know exist in your family. Yeah, I probably inherited all the good genes. But yeah, I mean, in actuality, uh I I liken my style of training to a deer that lives on the most popular game preserve. >> The deer that are there are really good at avoiding the hunters. Yes. And you see people at uh you know doing functional fitness and I'm still sprinting and doing track workouts and uh 400 meter dashes and uh you know playing the what I call church league sports doing crossfit >> um you know it if you can make it six months a year two years and then avoid ego lifting, ego running, ego crossfitting and ego sporting then I think that really helps. >> I I agree. >> Yeah. Maybe. Anyways, for the audience, if you have any questions for either one of us or any concerns, nice comments, mean comments, is all good for the algorithm. Please post below. And as always, may God bless you with health and happiness.
