# The Dark Side Of Full Body MRIs

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

We like full body MRIs, but they have a dark side. Are you aware of the upsides and downsides? There are many services that we use clinically and that we recommend for patients actually including this one. But we have this conversation that you know we know it as the physician patient relationship. And we're not a fan that people can just go to these different kind of direct to consumer websites and order an MRI without understanding the ups and downs of it first. I mean, it's uh quite a large investment and it's surprising that it's just direct and you know, accessible to the public whereas something like, you know, I guess routine labs are. Um, but yeah, I'm I'm uh really interested in this malpractice case. I haven't seen something like this, but I suppose it was only a matter of time with, >> you know, services like this one and others that are out there doing raising lots of money and presumably doing, you know, probably tens of thousands of scans. At this point, >> there's a difference between, you know, kind of like a bad outcome because, you know, you've tried a lot of things, but there's bad luck and missing something significantly. And basically what happened in this case is a a relatively young person who is presumably um did not know he was unhealthy first had a huge blockage in one of the arteries and led to a stroke and a lot of uh um you know worse quality of life. and he had a something called a Prouvo MRI. I think it said something like eight months before the incident. Um, which is very sad. And I guess we could put up a picture of what the blockage would look like if people are curious on the on the MRI. This is all public information. But the um you know the interesting part about this I guess from a provider standpoint is some states have a relatively low limit on what amount that they can pay out and Prouvo tried to get them to pay out this lower amount. Um I guess because this is an employed physician and that was just not going to be the case. Yeah, it it's either a W2, so a radiologist that specifically works for Peruvo, and that's why they're sort of both being named here, and that's why this article saying that, you know, Prouvo, this California based company, is trying to use California laws when the harm to the patient occurred in New York. Um, so that's interesting to me unless it's a situation where uh maybe this is a 1099 and Prouvo is saying like, "Hey, we'll back you up because they don't want their I mean relatively small number of radiologists. They have about a hundred radiologists to leave and then they have nobody that wants to work for them or interpret scans because of the medical legal implications there. >> Yeah. >> So, I'm interested to see this play out. Obviously, it's a tragedy and I'm sure the radiologists didn't >> intentionally not remark on this. You know, they they've done studies where radiologists, even the same guy one week to the next, will look at the same scan and give a different read. >> Um, that's the nature of human error and, you know, hopefully somewhere something like, >> um, I assume an AI could recognize this stenosis that we put up on the screen earlier and, you know, would not necessarily be the primary reader, but would go back and flag and be like, "Hey, did you want to remark on this slide?" a backup >> and then it it puts it on the screen in front of them with an arrow pointing to like what it's interested in. >> Yeah. >> And then the human reviewer can say like, "Oh, that's artifact." Or, "Oh, yeah. I'm I'm glad this was caught as like the we talk about the Swiss cheese model of medical errors." >> Absolutely. AI should be an additional layer in the Swiss cheese model, which is if you you know, sometimes there's going to be a hole, human air or AI air, and if it makes it through that hole, then it gets blocked by a different part of the cheese. So in the Swiss cheese model of uh basically healthc care air then you get blocked at multiple other locations if everyone is checking over. So ideally the care coordinator medical assistants checking the nurse is checking the interdisciplinary team if they're seeing multiple physicians all of those nurse practitioners or physicians or PAs are checking and in addition the pharmacist is checking or the radiologist or if it's a diagnostic imaging study. So I do think that Prouvo is a good company. My main issue with it is well of course this is I guess a second issue is you know you always want a quality reading of your scans and not to get Swiss cheesed but um you know if there's a a pertinent area of the scan that you can look at then maybe having a extra radiologist look at it or uh even a primary care doctor could probably see something like this and say hey um this looks like there's a a narrowing there can you please reread the scan and then you wouldn't have that air there. >> Yeah. I I'm a bit skeptical of these companies because it's a I I don't know what the radiology workload is. If a radiologist could come in and tell us like, hey, what would it actually take in terms of like hourly input to properly analyze a full body MRI? Um except for the toes or something like that. They don't do the feet, right? Yeah. >> They cut that section off. >> Yeah. >> Um what would the hourly work? Can do these numbers actually make sense or is this just all venture capital burning money? I'd be really interested to know that. And you know, I've had uh a couple of quality control issues with these with patients where um you know, one example, there was an organ that the patient had had removed and it was remarked as present and normal, obviously not the case, and then another where they didn't remark on some muscularkeeletal postsurgical changes that would have been extremely obvious. So, >> you know, reaching out to the company, they're, you know, not really they're like, "Oh, like we won't do that." Or I'm like, "Hey, can you like tell us what the patient's prostate volume is?" Because that's kind of a screener for BPH. Like what does this look like? And that's >> a useful piece of information for a lot of older people. And they're like, "Oh, no. We don't do that." So, they the lack of transparency in what they do and don't analyze >> um makes it kind of worrisome. So, it's like if I went and got a full body MRI, would they even remark on, you know, my surgical repairs like things that are are not quite right or like, "Hey, there's an evidence of an old fracture here or do they just leave out those things?" Because >> we can find out >> if you want a granular test. Yeah. And I'll I'll put it on the company credit card and we can do a chargeback if they miss even one thing. >> That's funny. Uh, in all seriousness, that's why I do like services like Brain Key, not to promote them. I'm not paid to promote them. I don't make money for ordering their scans or using their service, but um I don't have a discount code. I don't get a kickback. I'm not an influencer for them. And I don't think they have influencers, so I don't think you can find a discount code for you have to go to a doctor. >> Yeah, you can't just order the scan. Um, so they seem like quite an ethical company and they've done things sort of scientifically building from the ground up and um, I think that certainly would have like remarked upon this finding. They're very granular. You know, they're telling you, >> okay, your hypothalammus or your, you know, frontal cortex, you know, is in this percentile. It's below average, above average, whatever down to the percent. you know, if PNU was doing something like that with your um organs or with your muscles, like if they just said like, "Hey, yeah, like your your brain is in the, you know, 30th percentile for size." It's like, you know, consider like optimizing your health to promote like brain health, right, physically. So, I mean, at the very least, this gentleman, if he would have been told about this, it's, >> you know, probably aggressive medical management and and lifestyle medicine, right? We don't know anything about their baseline health if they had obesity or hypertension or what their lipid numbers were. Um >> just like a 37y old. >> Yeah. Like dual antiplatlet therapy is done in some of these cases depending on the degree of stenosis and probably would have prevented his stroke or at least significantly reduced the risk. Um but he just didn't know. So you've sort of got this false bill of reassurance when um he was expecting like this like checkup and like okay everything's good to go and then it wasn't the case. >> Yeah. To be clear, Brain Key which we mentioned earlier does not have full body MRIs. So we're not doing a you know a hit piece article on one thing that happened with one huge company that probably does have I I've had patients be very happy with their scans as well. But uh at the same time um you know there's a there's a difference between getting an MRI of your brain and your entire body. There's just so many other incidental findings that can come up. And it seems like a lot of people jump straight to a full body MRI that don't even have a primary care physician where really they probably need a concierge medical physician in order to really help them interpret the incidental findings and the findings that were missed or the findings that were um false negative. you know, both false positive and false negatives is what those things are. But, uh, is there a test that maybe somebody should get here? I am plugging our businesses that maybe maybe not it's not instead of a full body MRI, but a test that they probably don't have that could help something like their uh, cardiovascular disease risk. >> Yeah. I mean, if people get a good comprehensive set of blood work, that's a much better starting point. It's going to tell you a lot more about your different organ systems and the health of things there than an MRI, right? You can't tell if someone has low testosterone or their iron status from an MRI. Certain types of MRI, you can see iron overload like in the liver, but a prubo is not going to say, "Hey, you're iron deficient or you need more B12 or you actually are subclinally hypothyroid and you should monitor this." There's lots of things that blood work is just >> better for and I'm not 100% against full body MRIs. I think the silver lining of this is that the critics who say, "Oh, these things, all they do is create false positives and they're never going to save any lives. All they do is, you know, make people worried about things." Like, this is the perfect case where it actually could have had a positive impact. >> Yeah. Um, and there has been lots of positive impacts. I bet when famous celebrities get their MRI, they're really careful when they read over say like Kim Kardashian, they see a name they recognize. >> Yeah. Um, so, uh, you know, some of that's just medical privilege as well, which is unfortunate, but find a good doctor or nurse practitioner. They don't have to be a concierge level, but someone that will listen to your questions and can explain. And if they don't know, then they'll say, "I'll look it up, or I'll use consensus or open evidence to help me learn." Um, and think about your own health as your own biggest advocate. For example, uh I think it's only what 1% of people who have checked their LP little A level. And people can go to sage bio.com% >> for $15. We probably lose money selling this test on our website, but for $15 you can go to sagebio.com, our company, and get your lipoprotein little A checked. And that'll tell you if you're going to be higher risk of uh eskeemic disease. So plaque related disease like this individual was. >> Yeah. He could have had elevated lipoprotein. Mhm. Anyways, I think that about covers it. Hopefully people didn't see that it's too negative. Again, um there's many great services including Peruvo, which under the proper care of a physician are fantastic tests, but um hopefully gives people kind of a balanced approach to yes, there's a lot of upsides and downsides to um health interventions. >> Yeah, absolutely. So, um, like we mentioned, if you know there are radiologists out there who listen to this and have some insight onto the the business model, just for my own personal curiosity, I'd be interested to know. Um, and let us know what other questions you have about full body MRI or other screening tests. And as always, um, thank you for your time and thank you for watching. May God bless you with health and happiness.
