# Do this if you tear your pec

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

Welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast. I'm James O'Hara. I'm a nurse practitioner. And today we're joined by a very special guest, uh, Andy Kushner, who is a physical therapist, uh, manages a team of physical therapists here locally. And, uh, personally, I'm very appreciative of him because he helped me tremendously in my pec tear rehab over the last, you know, roughly six months now. I think I'm six months post repair. So, we're very excited to have Andy on. It'll be a good conversation. And could you tell the audience a little bit about yourself and who you are, what you're about? >> Sure. >> And uh thank you for having me. Uh thank you for tearing your PEX so that uh we could get to know each other. Um we have a [laughter] a shared history there. I tore mine in 2015, so um I'm always, you know, a little excited when someone comes in with that injury. Um, so yes, I work uh orthopedic physical therapy. I've been in that practice since 1999 uh after graduating from University of Missouri. Um been with a company called Athletico my whole career. Um, Athletico is a Chicago based uh physical therapy uh occupational therapy uh as well as athletic training services and uh based in Chicago and kind of grew uh throughout the Midwest and then at this point now like multi-reional. We're not everywhere nationally uh but I would I would call it multi-reional. So, um, yeah. So, uh, 26 years in that setting. So, gotten to see a a wide range of, uh, patient types. And, um, you'll never see everything, but, >> um, definitely, uh, uh, doing what we can to stay on top of, uh, everything that's developing in, uh, in your world of medicine. Uh, and on the surgical side. Yeah, I think all of us sitting here are lifelong learners. I think there I forget what the example was, but there was some kind of a you set something up against a wall on top of one of these like foam rollers and you're like 25 years it took me to figure this out. Like lifelong learner. >> Yeah. >> So there's always little things. >> It was it was totally mundane, right? I think we were just trying to hold a pad up against the wall to do, you know, shoulder isometrics uh >> so that I wouldn't have to stand there and hold it for you. Um, [laughter] >> yeah. >> Yeah. It's like the simplest things is like, you know, but yeah, I think we're all lifelong learners. And a question that we've asked ourselves on the podcast and asked some other guests is, you know, how do you define an injury? And I I kind of put it in two buckets here just for fun. >> But one is any injury sustained during training that prevented them from training, working, or competing in any way whatsoever. >> Or the other extreme, which is it's only an injury if I go to the doctor for it. Yeah. >> So, where do you stand on that spectrum? >> I would stand more toward uh the former. Uh I think if you looked at it as the latter, we'd have uh large swaths of the country that had never sustained an injury. If that was the case, >> just like me, [laughter] >> you only have tweaks. No injuries. >> Just a tweak. >> You know, it's interesting. I I look at it, you know, anything that um uh affects you and really I kind of have a three-day rule for a lot of things. And so once it's affecting you for 3 days, 72 hours or more, um something's at least a little bit wrong. Uh and uh how do you address that? Um the that said, I think there's day-to-day what we could call symptoms that are just part of being normal and part of living life and uh uh maturing and then aging. Um, I look a lot at, you know, what are kind of the remnants of past injuries that people have had that maybe they didn't deal with at the time or have to deal with at the time and how do those carry forward and and affect you down the road, whether it's causal for a bigger injury or just kind of affecting how you move and feel in general. Um, so yeah, I I look at it as uh just about any situation that's causing you to alter what you do uh beyond 3 days is kind of my working rule. >> Yeah, I think that's a good balanced approach. And maybe the the comment there about what people are carrying forward sets up a good segue for your question about you hear this all the time about people that you know got an injury of some kind. Mhm. >> So what's what's the common scenario that we hear about? >> The scenario that we hear about most common is I did blank or I hurt blank >> therefore I cannot exercise or I cannot get my scholarship or I did not go pro or I am not able to enter this competition or I am not able to do a very basic fitness assessment that our company does at least once a year. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, we do this. By the way, >> attendance is slowly going down and um every employee that at least attempts the different things in the Army fitness test gets a $200 bonus. >> Okay. >> But, you know, there's certainly a tier list best to worst excuses. >> For example, their back or their knee or whatever else. >> Hang. >> It's one of my favorite memes. the the uh it's usually a couple in the crowd of a of a given game uh with the in the meme it's always the male uh explaining that he had some injury in the past and that's why he's not uh out on the field at their at their pro match [laughter] um which you know does happen not everybody um yeah I you know we certainly hear that I think in u in our case for the active population. It's it's sometimes the case that people don't seek our help. I think there's this fear that they're going to be told, "Oh, this is wrong. You need to shut it down." Um, and [clears throat] you know, for 80 90% of the things that we see, we can work with uh adjustments and some short-term activity modification. And then um you know addressing if we want to just group it u in what we do uh addressing the the effectable mechanical side of of how it is that they're training or participating uh so they can work their way back. Um and there's going to be it's a small uh subset of injuries that are really going to cause you to have to have to shut it down. you know, pack terror is in that category. You know, does it mean that you uh can't still take care of your overall health and keep moving and be on a uh reasonable program with uh uh you know, lower extremity exercise, core strength, uh cardio of some kind. uh even if it's modified compared to what it is that you like to do or that you were doing, there's going to be a period of time where you're disusing the injured type, but it doesn't mean you're uh doesn't mean you're relegated to zero. >> Let's phrase the question this way. >> You've gotten an injury >> and [clears throat] presumably you were able to or let's say you did do the correct rehab and or surgery for this injury >> and it's been more than a year. You've been rehabbing it, presumably going to your physical therapist or your naturopath or chiropractor. >> Or you could just pray about it. >> No. In in actuality, you've been going to your physical therapist, you've done good rehab for more than a year. >> Okay. >> Should any individual of any age or almost any age be able to deadlift 100 pounds, uh, walk or jog a 15minute mile? row at some pace on a row urg >> and pull a lightweight say 50 to 80 pound sled with low friction back and forth. >> Sure. Uh I would say yeah. uh you know from that standpoint there's going to be a very small subset of of injuries or conditions that that would keep you >> uh from a purely orthopedic standpoint let's say you know >> fractures maybe below those >> bilateral leg amputation >> even even then one of the uh ladies that goes to run club with us has two prosthetic legs. >> Yeah. Yeah. And so >> she's Yeah. She uh runs much faster than a 15inute mile. Probably more like a six or seven minute mile. >> Yeah. And I would say the the uh you know the the injury history, let's say, um that is still preventing someone from taking on that level of activity or being able to achieve that uh level of uh of capability. um you're looking at a very small subset of injuries. You're looking at that point at more likely uh difficulty with mindset, assuming you had it before. >> Um reestablishing your mindset. Uh we we've been doing a lot of work in um the rehab and like strength and conditioning worlds for uh helping our patients and clients to like you know what what's really going on with someone's you know confidence as they should be getting back to activity. Whether that's very high level like in a competitive sport or whether that's uh their own uh uh training at whatever level or whether that's just you know doing day-to-day real life things. I think we're starting to fill in the blanks uh a little better there and giving people better tools. Mhm. >> Um but yeah, I would I would say, you know, when you when you kind of lay out those, you know, criteria for baseline levels of of what I would call capabilities, um your uh uh I can't think of a better word than subset. Going to be a very small subset of of physical circumstances that that would prevent that. >> Yeah. And I think this stems from sometimes people like us in the medical community are um not us personally but physicians or NPs out there are not giving people the greatest advice. If somebody's coming in with, >> you know, chronic low back pain and they heard it bending over to pick up groceries. >> They're going to tell them avoid spinal flexion or they're probably just going to say, you know, don't do that anymore. You know, because you see, oh this person does this, gets hurt, does this gets hurt. It's like stop doing that. instead of saying how can we strengthen that system or make you more resilient to this injury. >> Yes. So resilience is one of my favorite words. Um [clears throat] I you do hear a lot of uh uh advice having to do with just a blanket of rest, right? So how long should that rest be? Uh what does working your way back from rest entail? uh is full rest indeed the most appropriate thing? What else can you be addressing while you are resting? You know, on the nutritional side, uh uh sleep patterns, um uh stresses, um there's there's a couple other categories there. And so um I look at uh you know pretty free utilization of pain medication in the same way. You know there's a small subset that in my opinion it's not something we prescribe and that's not really my world. Uh but you know what really requires that type of treatment and to me there's a very very big difference between you know this is going to get you through you know 3 to 5 days of uh what might be pretty severe pain and then you're going to be off of it as opposed to someone getting 30 or 60 uh doses in a in a bottle and really no instructions as to uh when or how to uh work their way back to consciousness. So >> yeah, I think that's definitely an important concept. Um you know, that's one thing the medical community has learned. That's why for physicians and NPs, there's mandatory um education regarding pain medication. >> And you know, we continue to be lifelong learners. As we mentioned, I get almost all of my information from Tik Tok and Reddit. Sure. [laughter] >> And Dr. Joel Seedman >> and maybe we should check out some of his information or videos as well and and see what you think. >> Sure. >> So, he is a a credentialed individual. I think he has a PhD in exercise science, but [clears throat] >> you know, what's credentialed and what's practical are sometimes very different. So, Drew, can we play the clip of the Dr. Seedman? I think that's the Instagram one. So, what do we think about this training technique? >> All right. I may be mistaken, but I feel like this is probably not the very best way to activate the tibialis anterior, but what are your thoughts? >> I think there's other ways that you could do it. Um, I look at uh concepts and components, right? So uh you named a good component there. Uh the concept uh is uh not going to work for many people. Um [snorts] you know um I wasn't that familiar with uh with the seedman's uh uh until just a couple weeks ago when I was uh uh looking at some some references to to be prepared to to talk with you guys. Um, you know, I let's put it this way. At this point in my career, I don't really close my mind too much. Um, I think what happens in a lot of cases when things are being posted is you're going to post like some extremes that are eye-catching. uh and hopefully a lot of your programming for real people is uh you know closer to a a core of uh practical and applicable uh movement training you know in this case right so um you know for uh someone who is prepared to push their body to this level they could throw something like this in there to to spice up uh you know hip flexor and anterior tip along with some core activation and uh they'll be okay. What percentage of the population does that apply to? Not much of one. And that's always my concern, you know, when when you're putting that information out there, let's say or those examples out there is like, okay, you know, who are what group of people is going to be your next 500 people to try it and uh and where is that going to take those people? Um, and uh, that's what's concerning concerning to me when when you've got things like this uh, just out there for the for the world to see. I don't think there's I I think you know there are some very extreme things that if uh, uh, people have prepared their body to be resilient to it, uh, they can they can train that way at least as like a component. I wouldn't want it to be like >> even for this particular athlete, I wouldn't want it to be, you know, all of his programming, right? So, >> yeah. >> Yeah. >> Go ahead. >> My thought with this is since his kettle bells are on the dorsal aspect of his foot. >> Mhm. That is probably the rate limiting step and the most difficult part of this exercise. >> It looks strong enough to where he could be overloading his pull-up heavier and likely getting a better response. >> So, you know, I suppose from the rehab aspect, maybe he is trying to train his interior tibialis, but there's no mention of it in the post and it said he's trying to double his strength and muscle mass. So, >> this is not the best way to double your strength and muscle mass is to limit yourself by your anterior tip. >> Yeah, I think you were spot on when you you mentioned this is like, you know, going to get the most clicks or views or attention because it's something extreme. >> Yeah. >> To me, I look at this and it's like if you took an AI who didn't know anything about exercise science >> and you asked it to create a compound movement, >> it's like compound movement, multiple muscle groups, and it threw something like this together. >> Yeah. And I'm I'm wondering, you know, maybe I didn't have enough chains and kettle bells in my rehab protocol. [laughter] >> I I think, you know, during your uh recovery from pec repair, we definitely could have hit your anterior tip harder. >> Yeah. [laughter] >> When are you going to incorporate butterfly pull-ups into your pec rehab? >> Yeah. Are you familiar with butterfly pull-ups, CrossFit, and that sort of thing? >> Yeah. Yeah. Enough. You know, I've seen it. Not something I take in. Yeah. Sure. Helps. >> Yep. Yep. >> Yeah. Uh let's let's play that middle games. >> The middle one first. >> That one. There you go. >> Is that a no chalk gem? Oh, nope. He's got chalk. >> There's chalk. >> Yep. >> Maybe not enough chalk. Maybe he's like, "Oh, I forgot the chalk on that." >> He he chocked. Oh, he's going again. >> Wow. >> Well, there's there's the mental resilience. >> So, can this movement be done safely? And like what do you think about the shoulder >> anatomy and the stresses put on that whole system in this kind of movement? >> Yeah. Um, it goes back a little bit to what I we were talking about in the first clip. um you know, someone who's like prepared, conditioned, has some background in those more, if we want to call it, like gymnastic movements. Um, cool. Would I want it to be the only way that even one of those people is uh training that movement pattern, if we want to call it that? No. I I would look at something like that more as, you know, like a almost like a CrossFit modification for competitive purposes, right? Like how can I rattle off the most of these in my unit time uh when I'm in a competitive environment? And you probably train it to a degree so that you can get as good at that as possible for when you are going to be a competitive competitive environment. Um, you know, for most people going into, and it's kind of how I have to consider things. Um, most people going into a gym like that for their first several sessions aren't really prepared to take that on. And you're, you know, you're much more likely to to, you know, what's your what's your risk to benefit ratio look like? you know, if risk is injury and benefit is truly getting stronger and healthier, I don't think the ratio is really in your favor uh with with those types of movements um early on. If you are well-guided and on your way to to, you know, proper training for it and then using it as a training tool, you know, that's a different conversation. We had a patient years ago, and this is usually the population I'm thinking of because it's it's it's what we do. Uh he had a uh rotator cuff tear. Uh pretty typical uh profile for it. you know, early 50s attorney was uh trying to get more uh active and fit and went to a CrossFit style functional training gym. Uh had the shoulder problem develop pretty quickly. Uh was working with one of my other therapists. went for a second opinion to one of the orthopedic surgeons that we worked with quite a lot uh up in the Chicago area who was a very uh practical guy um uh high level uh you know division one football player himself and uh when he came back from the second opinion his therapist asked him what u what the doctor told him about it and he said well he really started off with more of a question like, "Okay, what was it?" He's like, "Uh, what the hell were you doing hitting a tractor tire with, uh, whatever it was, you know, 15 pound mallet or nope, something?" [laughter] And, uh, uh, he's like, "I don't know. I was doing what they told me to do." So, you know, what does your exercise prescription and your dosage look like? Um, and uh, you know, that's usually where my that's how I have to look at it and that's where my concerns come in with with, uh, with anything that's kind of caught steam here >> over the last uh, 20 or so years. >> Yeah. Well, you answered one of our pending questions, which was, have you ever seen someone get hurt during CrossFit? >> Yeah. >> Which the answer is usually yes, but it doesn't have to be that way. Uh we talk a lot with patients about prehab because we have people that come to us and >> maybe there's some life event or a family member or something happens and they're like I need to do something about my health. So they make some very drastic changes. >> Mh. >> And it's great that people are motivated like that. But sometimes we have to say let's take this a little bit slow, >> especially on the exercise part of it. >> And I know you did this personally whenever you started doing CrossFit. You didn't go out and do a bunch of butterfly pull-ups and, >> you know, max rep or max weight snatches and things like that on day number one. >> Yeah, I do this for every sport. So, regardless if it's basketball or football or soccer >> or crossfit, the first six months or so that you start a new sport, you're just getting used to the movement patterns. You have to put the ego aside. >> You can ego lift, you can ego football, you can ego crossfit. Mhm. >> And I see the point of things like kipping pull-ups, butterfly pull-ups, um even functional fitness movements like, you know, I don't think people do hammer and mallets anymore. That was kind of a fad that went out. >> But even things like a peg board, >> um and a lot of gymnastics. >> Yeah. >> Um those are for the point of competition. >> Yeah. Vision quest. Just like, you know, a football tackle >> is not the best way to train strength, >> but people obviously practice football tackles and they do football tackles in a game. >> Yeah. You have to be good at it if you're going to do it. >> Yes. Because, you know, there's like, you know, there's new rules about no head-to-head collisions [clears throat] for a good reason. >> And I think that a lot of sports can learn how football has tried to make that sport safer. >> Mh. And um you know functional fitness at least a lot of uh some of them are trying to make it safer by you know eliminating butterfly pull-ups from low and mid-level competitions. Eliminating headstand push-ups from low and mid-level competitions. >> Guardian helmets for headstand push-ups. >> That would be hilarious. >> Or the giant the giant baseball caps. >> Yeah, that do the trick. >> Jumping into a sport like that. >> Yeah. If you took 30 and 40 and 50 year olds and instead of doing functional fitness in their >> uh free time, if you had them, you know, play actual football, >> American football, then they would have even higher injury rates, >> right? >> Yeah. I mean, I come from a rugby background, you know, grew up with American football, found rugby, didn't play American football. My mom wouldn't sign me up. Um, you know, so as you just mentioned, you know, really starting lately to uh get serious. >> Mhm. >> You know, what are our best tools or combination of tools because it's not going to be just one to reduce head injuries to a more acceptable level, you know? Um, and uh the rugby style tackling has been a big big part of that. Um and uh then yes, training your way upward as opposed to running, you know, drills with uh 10-year-olds where they're, you know, planting their the crown of their helmet and another 11 or 12-year-old's face mask. >> Yeah. >> Um and uh you know, you see the the bad things out there, you're starting to see more >> more of the good. And um >> any advice for someone whose wife is being recruited for an adult women's rugby league? She's built like a a linebacker. >> Yeah. Um you'll probably she will probably really enjoy it. Learn how to tackle properly if you're going to get serious about playing. >> Um they'll be spending every rugby club I've had experience with at any age spends a good amount of time at each training session teaching fundamental tackling. They don't assume people know it. One of the risks for American players uh who are transitioning uh is that they may have grown up uh with a helmet on uh and putting their heads in places where their head doesn't belong when they don't have a helmet um or even when they do. >> She hasn't done the first part that I know of. [laughter] >> Yeah. But learn how, you know, if you're going to get serious, obviously there's a conditioning, you know, side to it that's multiffactorial. And then you need to learn how to tackle properly. you know, the the tackler is at just as much risk, in some cases more. >> Um, and so, you know, you do want to take that seriously. We had a neighbor whose son was transitioning to tackle football after kind of just being approached about, you know, coming out for it and was transitioning from soccer and was planning on just showing up and being the kicker. And they're like, "Hey, you're pretty fast and you're big enough. Let's have you play defensive back, too." And he was excited about it, you know, and when we talked about him, I'm like, "Oh, that's great." like how much time did they uh spend explaining how to tackle properly to you? It's like what? >> Yeah. [laughter] >> You know, uh those situations are are concerning. Um so my advice would be if you're interested in playing uh your uh there's a whole lot of things that we would like to condition if they're not already uh to be resilient to the uh running and sprinting and uh proper tackling techniques. Yeah, it's very runheavy and you know, you got two 40-minute halves with very little downtime compared to like American football. >> Your true participation is much higher. Yeah, it's one of the things that makes the studies differ. >> You know, uh a football roster is more than twice as big. For most of the studies, they count as participants. >> Uh they might be participating in zero to three plays. Um your punter counts. Um, every once in a while a punter gets in there and tries to do something and more power to them. Um, but in most cases, you know, your your kicking specialists are not that exposed. So um whereas you know rugby if we're comparing for union rugby is a roster of 23 and in this era all 23 are likely to participate in some way in a game where the ball is in play for in a nonprolevel rugby match. It's going to be in play for about twice as long as it is in American football and close to three times as long if you're talking about really really high level play. So >> yeah, >> and going back to the the pec tear, I think you have a much cooler story than me as far as the pec tear. I I had your textbook kind of, you know, male [clears throat] bench pressing. >> Felt it. Knew exactly what happened. I was like, you know, educated enough to know, okay, I don't need to go to the ER for this. I just need to get some imaging and see what's going on. >> Hopefully [clears throat] it doesn't bruise tomorrow. And then bruise tomorrow. So >> that's that's my story that the audience has heard me talk through. Now you're >> Did Kyle accuse you of ego lifting up to that point or no? >> No. >> No. You're really not an [laughter] eagle lifter. You were lifting light for you that day. >> I remember you telling me it was like a busy day and where going on the on the Bravo a bunch was like your one alternative to kind of keep your day moving. So >> it's kind of bad luck. >> Yeah, it's just gyms are too busy. But which is good. People are are active and training. But uh >> I think I've sworn off the flat barbell bench. I did it before, but now I think I'm uh I'm good. And I'm just going to stick with the dumbbell. >> I'll do it for you. [laughter] >> Yeah. And and my strength is actually back to probably knocking on 80%. Kind of like you'd predicted this point, 6 months. And >> there's more strength there, but I'm just kind of progressing up slowly to it. >> About every two weeks, I'll add five pounds of that dumbbell that I have in the right hand. >> But to go back to your story, you know, how did you, you know, tear your pec and then, you know, the subsequent management of that and your rehab? Kind of talk through some of those things. >> Sure. Yeah. Um, so I, uh, we talked a little bit, uh, about rugby and I, I can talk about rugby forever, so you guys might have to stop me, but um, I found the sport, uh, it found me in college, played for several years. Uh, uh, when I was back in Chicago and, uh, focusing on work and, uh, getting married, I, uh, took a year off and that year turned into 15. and then um thought it would be uh you know brilliant idea to uh jump back into some play and see if I could get fit again and still do it. and um uh my wife supported me in doing so with some trepidation and and side eyeing and uh that's what I did and I was back and uh playing more than I thought I would honestly and uh jumped in during uh scrimmage at the end of a training session before our first match that fall in what we call team run and uh jumped into a position that I'd ever played before cuz someone had subbed out and we couldn't run our next scrum without someone at that particular position. So, I'm like, "Yeah, I'll real quick, I'll jump over there." And um uh for anyone familiar with it, I jumped into a second row spot and uh was holding on as instructed to uh my second row partner. Uh ball went into play, front row collapsed. I tried to still hold on and basically I got my left arm was was run through for lack of a better term and I immediately knew I did something wrong. Um it was audible. Uh my arm instantly went like cold and numb like full full-on inhibition and uh I was hoping it was my biceps tendon because you don't really need it. Um, it became pretty clear with uh with my own uh uh analysis while avoiding passing out and with our athletic trainer who was on site for that uh session that it was my pec and uh had surgery a few weeks later and um rehabbed it with uh a little bit of help from my wife who's also a PT. Uh range of motion came back pretty easily which I believe is also your experience. Yeah. >> Um it's a big bulky tendon, but it's outside the capsule, so range of motion tends to come back relatively easily. Uh and then just uh followed the rules and uh for the protect protective period over the first five or six weeks and then uh started progressively strengthening it. And uh for me it was um yeah, right about six months that I was back into uh some contact at training. I wasn't doing like full live tackling. Um, uh, as we spoke about or about 80% of the strength and it came back like I mean close to no effort, you know, just progressively strengthening it. It really didn't take uh um more than a session to progress to the next step until I got above 80%. and then realized once I got back at training because I tried to lift for a line out and my left arm wouldn't move as I was uh lifting or jumper uh that I needed to uh focus on more of that kind of explosive upper extremity plyometric if we want to call it that uh to to regain that and once I got that neurally going that that came back too um and uh I would rate myself now uh you know I'm 10 years older again I just turned 50 um [snorts] uh but uh would rate myself uh at 100%. Similarly, I spent a lot of time not uh not doing barbell benching, just didn't really feel comfortable with it, but I was at full strength with dumbbells. Um, I've reinccorporated uh some bar uh not as heavy as I would have trained uh pre-injjury, but enough to still get, you know, a different stimulus and it's, you know, pretty comfortable and and uh and reasonably strong even though it's not really, you know, the focus of my training. So, >> yeah. And I think I could go back and do barbell bench because some of the study protocols where they're looking at different types of repairs for this injury, they actually have them go back like 12 months later and they're like, "How much can you bench now?" Yeah. >> And I I assume that's just big orthopedics trying to keep the the money train rolling along. We're going to have our my surgeon on the podcast I think Monday. >> Oh, good. >> So, I'll I'll bring that up with him. What's going on there? >> Yeah. [laughter] >> But and you know, I think a lot of that comes back to um what we were speaking about earlier. you know, what's the confidence level for just getting back into that particular movement when that's how it was injured before and where we know uh that uh in the absence of a uh of a traumatic mechanism, right? Like mine was more on the traumatic spectrum. Uh in the absence of a traumatic uh mechanism, it's one of the higher risk activities. You know, most of your Tik Toks of pec terrors are gonna be uh benching with a bar. >> Yeah. >> With Larry Wheels. >> Yeah. Specifically with him. Yeah. >> Also audible. You know, usually you can hear it. And uh I uh but you know, I don't advise people not not to bench press. I wouldn't have them do it in the first, you know, six or eight months after a a repair. But as far as uh you know, the risk associated for uh up to that point healthy person, you know, there's benefits. Again, if we talk about that ratio, you've got benefits that u outweigh the risks. You've got good alternative ways to strengthen those systems that can uh maybe reduce that eccentric loading, but also help you be more resilient to it. Uh and that's where I think that that balance comes in. >> Yeah. So when you're benching now and you're thinking about, you know, that injury risk or how to prevent that, and we had a discussion about this a little bit, thinking about things, you know, isometrically like, you know, I I think I was checking all the boxes because I would do, you know, dumbbell flies with a very slow eccentric, >> you know, maybe even pausing at the bottom, getting a good full range of motion. So I don't think I was like necessarily weak in that range of motion. But are there any things that you incorporate other than, you know, working with reasonable weights and not ego lifting >> to specifically prevent a uh like a recurrence or pec tear? >> Yeah. Um I look at it, you know, it's going to occur like uh all uh soft tissue injuries, it's going to occur under eccentric load or as you're first transitioning uh from eentric to concentric in that plyo phase. And so, um, several of the things that you described, um, and if I was to be more specific, there's actually like some old school, uh, training methods that I would use, you know, doing push-up variations where you're like getting some air and where you're having to kind of train in that uh, uh, landing, so to speak, on your hands, you know, more the the the shoulder and upper extremity uh, pio phases. Um so uh some other variations that change eccentric emphasis without really like a weight related overload. So, um, being in offset positions, you know, one hand on a medicine ball, one hand on the ground, uh, one hand on a dumbbell, uh, one hand on the ground, each hand on a dumbbell, so that you can get, you know, more depth, uh, on your push-ups. And these, again, I'll assume that you've trained up to that point. Um, but I think they're good variations for, uh, building that resilience and that capability. >> Yeah. And I've incorporated the, like you mentioned, the like hopping or, you know, explosive type push-ups. Now, I'm not clapping behind my back yet, but >> not yet. >> Um, you know, they they feel surprisingly good. You know, there's no um, you know, >> doms there. Nothing feels off where the graft is at. [clears throat] >> Um, and I really happy with where I am at this point. Just feels like it's been pretty linear progress without a lot of setbacks. >> Yeah. Yeah. Which is great. I mean, we can't always promise that it'll be as linear as your experience has been. So, it's been cool to to see it. Honestly, um I would I'll get in trouble with the other PTs if I also don't mention some of the other, you know, balancing, you know, how is your core strength, which is a very broad term. Um how integrated is your shoulder complex with your core per se? How does that relate to what you're doing for scapular training? Um uh and uh you know we don't really want to see uh obviously if it's for competitive purposes there's going to be some skewing but we don't want to see people uh who are uh just bench pressors. So you know we would try to be uh helping people to condition the big picture in terms of scapular stability, rotator cuff recruitment and control. um getting that integrated in with with the core um so that you can produce and resist force properly. Yeah, I that's important to mention because I think it's probably the most core work that I've done in years was actually rehabbing my pec. It's kind of interesting for people to think about, but you know, it does matter. And you know, I think it was beneficial even if it wasn't, >> you know, feeling like at the time, oh, this is helping my pec, it's going to translate to other things like my stability in a squat or my core, you know, being able to activate that for a deadlift, those sorts of things. and any athletic things where I'm doing dynamic movements, it's just going to all snowball in a positive direction. >> Yeah. And in some cases in that rehab environment, we're trying to, you know, think of ways, okay, what what can we do that's going to benefit this patient and in that case you uh that in that environment, some of the core strengthening gives us an opportunity to start to get your uh pectoral in that case um involved and stimulated without it being isolated and really, you know, emphasize to the point that it's that it's at risk. Um and uh for the patient it then provides a good opportunity to kind of refocus on those elements that have kind of gone to the wayside just as people you know move forward in life and they're pressed for time and they have other commitments and they can't be uh you know spending 45 minutes doing like a highintensity let's say uh targeted strength session and then going back later in the day and still spending you 30 40 minutes on u you know accessory musculature or cord training or whatever we we want to look at um there's other things you have to do in life and so um gives us a good opportunity to to reinccorporate those things for your overall health and to uh address the injury. >> Yeah. in thinking of like the linear and speed of recovery. You know, there's all this sort of lore around professional athletes and what they do to recover and you know, you see them go in the oxygen tent and they've got the trainers working on them and >> and you know, corticosteroid shots are used, corticosteroids are used in general. >> Um, I've heard things like, you know, these people are like if they even tweak something, they're going getting PRP or something injected like the same day. What are some [clears throat] of the differences in just terms of like the [snorts] resources or the things that you know like you know proathletes the Chicago area are doing compared to your uh I guess recreational athlete in the general population who's going to take some ibuprofen for a couple of days and then kind of slowly go back to normal. >> Yeah, I think resources is a great thing to look at. Um I also think um uh lack of uh other factors in many cases, not in all. Um so how well can a pro or scholarship athlete, you know, focus their time on what they need to do to get better and then what are the resources that are there. Um, so you know, if you, it's a famous case, I'd feel comfortable naming it. You had, uh, Adrien Peterson kind of reset a lot of people's expectations for coming back from an ACL injury. Um, he came back, I think his timeline for playing in uh, that NFL opener was like right around nine months. um nine months is as it's happened has since kind of turned into more like the magic number for where your outcomes just look way better. You know, even if someone's ready, you know, even by the objectives you can measure at month six or seven, the outcomes just prove out to be better if if they're held uh until month nine. Um they made some other adjustments uh for it to be as successful as it could be in terms of how they ran their offense. Um it's important to note that in my opinion um a guy like that is a step in physical and orthopedic evolution that 99.9999% of the population has not taken. it's just a different guy, you know. So, uh, in addition to that, on the resource side, uh, he has full-time, very focused assistance, and you're talking in a lot of for a lot of the days that he was rehabbing, it's two sessions, sometimes three. And the important thing to note, uh, when people want their young athletes to do more and more and more, is that if it was a day with two or three sessions, everything other than one of them is recovery based. Um and so uh those resources are different. The ability to focus uh time, energy, effort. Uh not everybody does a great job of it even though it's available. But being on top of uh the nutritional side, obviously the teams and individuals who are in that environment have really really good resources for nutrition uh and for customizing it. um you know proper sleep uh that gets harder in season with the travel. Um you know probably the biggest factor uh for me you know when we look at uh uh how athletes make it through uh their competitive season especially when you're talking about uh basketball and hockey uh because you might be in a different place every day uh for uh months at a time. Uh, and if you're not able to sleep on the plane or fall asleep as soon as you get to your hotel, you're you're just not sleeping. Um, and so, uh, but anyway, uh, while rehabbing and, uh, certainly during the offseason, they've got pretty good control over those, uh, aspects of their lives if they're, um, uh, interested. Uh, not everybody manages it well, but they have a better ability to do so. Yeah. And do you have any thoughts on incaids in general? I mean, I think they're overused by some people and underused by some people who would benefit from them, >> but especially around like an acute injury. I've seen some hints of data that it might >> slightly impair the speed of healing. Certainly like with a fracture, I think there's some some data there. >> But I guess from your background and, you know, kind of being and looking at a holistic view of all this. >> Yeah. Um what are your thoughts with incaids and injury contexts? >> Sure. Uh and again it's not something that's in our world of prescription. Uh but I do get asked a lot of questions about it. And then for things that are, you know, self-care, you know, over the counter, you know, pretty comfortable offering advice to people about it. Um I look at it everything I think about happens in in threes. Uh if you're day three or beyond and you're not really starting to feel like you're recovering from whatever acute episode occurred, um your system is telling you that it needs some assistance, right? So there's the benefit of inflammation, right? It's a stage inhaling. It's first one. Um, usually when I see people in clinic, unless it's someone coming in to see us for a free assessment or uh someone who's just being very proactive, you know, the day after an injury and they come in and see us uh without consulting another medical professional, which which we can help with, um, [clears throat and cough] usually by the time I'm seeing someone for an evaluation, if they're still in still having localized pain or they're still having swelling, it means something has gone ary with the inflammatory process cycle, right? So, um, in those cases, assuming they're not contraindicated for it or have stomach problems with it, I think a short though, I think it works better when it's reasonably intensive, uh, bout of NSAIDs can be helpful for that person. So uh when those situations arise you know someone who's uh 10 days from their onset let's say or 10 days from their injury as an example you know is it likely to be helpful for that person uh to do 48 hours of you know the dose that the label allows and just do it like for that 48 maybe even 72h hour period and I tell them like kind of picture a wave of this medication hitting your system and then passing through and you're done with it and see how much of a change it'll make for you in terms of your local pain or any swelling associated with it. Um I'm kind of on the same boat with icing for local injuries. Um there's been some stuff out, you know, the last several years where people are looking at it as like, well, we don't want to have ICE, you know, >> interrupt the process or whatever. But again, if the process has proven that it isn't working, uh it's going to need some help. And um you know, so kind of the same recommendations along those lines. Even a little sooner if it is swollen. You know, swelling is more of a flag for for me, you know, at first glance than local pain is. And so, um, uh, yeah, that's how I'd look at those situations and usually the advice I would offer. >> How about a patellar tendon rupture? >> Let's say a pretty strong athletic individual, ruptures, it uh, about a week later or so, gets surgery, >> wants to rehab it as aggressively as possible. Mhm. >> You know, they usually ask us questions like what peptides should they take and what else should they do, which is a reasonable question to discuss the risks and benefits. >> How can that situation like how soon can they start? And is there a way even if they're not technically a professional athlete, if they are, you know, very strong and they've been um, you know, been doing athletic things for their whole life, >> can can they accelerate it like a pro alete might want to? Um, [sighs] I would say for something like that, you know, when you're talking about at the level of like a tendon repair, uh, your, uh, recovery is more important than the work you're going to do at that point. And I think it's there's a level setting conversation to be had there. Um, >> can they start physical therapy? Mhm. >> Like uh how long should they wait after the surgery to start for a situation [clears throat] >> similar to that or that exact situation? >> Yeah. >> And then I guess if they are moving through rehab slower, do you still wait for certain time times to add things in regardless of how they're doing? >> Yeah, that's a good question. Um so for me, you know, typically someone if we're talking I I think it's probably a good example. you know, if we're talking about tendon repairs, there's going to be precautions that they're under, you know, that are assigned by their surgeons, right? So, um, those are assigned for reasons, whether that has to do with studies or that surgeons, uh, own experiences in their practice or during fellowship and what have you. And, uh, um, those sorts of, uh, restrictions, uh, have evolved, right? um and uh I believe them uh to be appropriate as well. Uh so um in those cases I'm going to look more at local inflammation control uh as opposed to systemic. um depending on the surgeon and it might be a conversation that we would have to have directly you know are you you [clears throat] know with the tissue in the phase that it's in are you okay with this person you know taking u an over-thec counter anti-inflammatory and often the answer is yes but I'm still compelled to check and I really wouldn't want to make that recommendation without checking um uh those are injuries that I ice you know it'll help analesically it'll help with the swelling I ice it with some compression. Um, and then as far as things that they can, you know, proactively do, like let's say if if they're not progressing at the pace that they would like, but that pace is within established orthopedic expectation, >> uh, then that's a conversation to have. um if they're falling behind, so to speak, you know, on range of motion, let's say, but we're not supposed to do passive range of motion yet, then I'm going to uh check in. And it's one of the reasons that it's important that uh all of us in this, you know, medical field are able to communicate with each other. um because that uh as you guys have probably discussed that that communication is not as good as the outside world might expect in some cases. So um that's why that door being open is important. Um, and I can, you know, have if if we were still under precautions for James' uh pec tendon and uh he was going more slowly than we expected, I can contact his surgeon and like, hey, I know we're not to this point, but I'm concerned about this factor for him. are you uh okay with me introducing this technique now as opposed to waiting another two weeks let's say when it would be uh within the parameters of his protocol >> and once we know and trust each other that answers typically yes um and so uh I hope that answers your your question well and those are conversations that we do you know have to have on occasion or uh you know bounce it off of a therapist who has more experience with that type of procedure, you know, does it make sense to do this now? And if so, how do we make sure we're not crossing any lines by doing it? >> Um, and then we can help that patient move forward that way. >> Yeah. What are some of your favorite uh in in my mind I think of like these challenging sort of catastrophic injury type cases when I'm thinking about the memorable ones, but you know, working with some of the pro teams in the Chicago area. There's some that are of course anonymous but particularly >> uh memorable or that you were like really happy with the way that rehab outcome happened. Of >> course besides my own. >> Well, sure. Yeah. Yeah. Uh they ask me about you all the time. >> Yeah, I'm sure. >> Um [laughter] you know, there's one that sticks out. Uh, it was one of my pro players and um I happened to turn the TV on to their game like literally two seconds before he got hurt. Uh, so I saw his mechanism. Uh, they replayed it a couple times once he left the game. Um I think it was before I could pause live TV but um got to see what happened you know so and get a pretty good idea for myself of like uh where was the failure in the system so to speak in his case he had retorted ACL retars with non-cont mechanisms uh are actually pretty low likelihood your other knee is at more risk than your reconstructive didn't me. So, it assuming the first one was non contact. So, um I had no idea that I would be helping him. And then like a couple weeks later, I got a call and was like, "Hey, you know, can you see this guy in clinic? Uh there can be any number of reasons why a team might not be able to see one of their players." Uh in his case, it had to do with like the end of the contract year. So, um saw him for rehab. Um, we were able to uh focus once he was doing well uh well kind of back to your point, we were able to start to incorporate some kind of low demand uh uh hip and core strengthening that he had just not been doing well with previously. Uh one of the examples of a big strong very athletic guy whose stabilizing musculature was just not up to snuff. Uh it's a little chicken or the egg uh as it relates to his first injury mechanism um uh because I just don't know. Um and then uh but I knew it was a problem with his second injury. So we were able to incorporate more of that a little earlier than I otherwise might have. Um and then as he went through more and more weight bearing, we were able to transition that to more weight bearing versions of balance and propriceptive training with like a hip and core emphasis and those sorts of ideas. Uh, and then, uh, without getting too into particulars, I got a phone call that we expected to get from a well-meaning person who wanted to switch him out of supervised rehab and switch him to a different setting. In that case, it would have been very premature, mostly because of the other setting. uh they got me on the phone with the individual who uh generates his revenue from the other setting and I was able to have a conversation with him uh about the reasons why I needed to keep him with me for that supervised work but that he could go into the other setting to work on these other elements upper body strength uh some other core strengthening uh uh but that I needed to keep him with me for uh you the next what was going to be essentially eight weeks to make sure we had him really ready to work his way back into on the court activities. Uh and uh uh he agreed to to do so which uh dispelled the concerns of the other well-meaning third party and we were able to keep him uh in rehab and he went back and you know played into uh his next contract and beyond and then he held up all forms. So that one always kind of sticks out especially because it for me it had uh some of the elements that I didn't really anticipate you know having to navigate or to work with uh when you start to work with uh with that population. So um it's kind of cool one and uh a good uh a good pathway to to keep in mind. >> Yeah. It just goes to sort of tag on to what you talked about with communication like you know setting a limit in your case of like hey this is >> the reasoning behind why we need to keep this guy at this stage at least for this specific joint lower body that kind of thing. >> Yeah. And you know a trust in yourself to be able to have that conversation. You know, you don't you don't get there without um you know, the right uh mentoring and enough of and those mentors trusting you to to be uh immersed, you know, in those what can be more complex rehabs and complex ancillary situations uh so that you're prepared uh to have those types of conversations. And in some cases, you know, do you need to uh just as as you would with each other, do you need to, you know, put a call in to, you know, one of your uh mentors or or friends or colleagues that you think may have been in similar situations before so that you can prep yourself for it. And um you know, you don't want to pull that kind of conversation out of the sky, I don't think. So >> um it was uh it was really really important that I had people who who trusted me along the way so that I could uh move forward in in building my own uh uh practice. Yeah, on the topic of ACL's, you know, I I find that really interesting with like you mentioned, you know, the carrying the contrlateral ACL, so the other side is actually higher risk. And >> yeah, >> some of the the twin studies there kind of remarkable to me if I'm recalling correctly. There was like twin sisters, >> I don't know if they were identical or not, but I think the risk is present in either case. But one >> higher in uh identical twins than uh uh than in uh why am I blanking word? Thank you. >> Yeah, you let me struggle a little bit. [laughter] >> But yes. Yeah. >> Yeah. And one of the girls, she was, you know, going down the stairs, right? [snorts] And that was the mechanism. And then it was I think it was six months or a year later her twin sister >> same exact mechanism going down the stairs ACL tear. >> And you know it's hard to read too much into that because you can go around blaming everything on genetics >> but it's always a combination of genetics and environment. And >> I don't know if you're familiar with the book the sports gene. Mm- No, >> it looks at things like your fast twitch muscle fibers and some of the like >> I guess biio mechanics behind things and things like heat dissipation. So like >> if you're a taller runner, for example, >> um over the course of a marathon, you're going to have a harder time getting rid of heat because you have less body surface area compared to someone who's, you know, 5'6. >> Okay. >> That's why I'm not a good marathoner. Yep. There's a reason I found it. Yep. I read it in the book. >> Yeah. That's why I never started. [laughter] at all. But um yeah, I mean have you seen examples of that where like in family members people run into the same issues muscularkeeletally? >> Sure. Yeah, I have. And uh it's hard to know what's what in those situations. And uh I was I was looking back through some of the twin study information. And um you know, they're very early on. And so, you know, what uh I I think ACL risk, you know, which is a hot topic and it should be, you know, for non-cont risk, um is multiffactorial and you're going to find some factors that weigh a little more heavily than others in at least some people, but there's not going to be, you know, just one. So, are we looking at connective tissue quality? Are we looking at little anatomical anomalies with uh with uh something as simple as where the ligament is? Or are we looking at um uh you know tensile strength differences? Are we uh is there some movement system you know muscular dynamic control uh problem that's going to run more in families especially in twins? um other anatomic little variances, you know, uh uh you know, hip angles and femoral angles and uh uh tibial uh tibial curvatures and uh then you get into muscle firing patterns and uh um you know, they're getting back to some studies for females because it is higher rates in females that look at at it as it relates to a menstrual cycle. So, um you're uh uh you know, you're not going to find just one thing that it is for everybody, you know, but [clears throat] there's uh definitely something to it on the injury risk side as well as on the performance side. >> Yeah. you know, the the only real correlation beyond uh uh you know, error explanations for uh on the performance side, you know, being a D1 scholarship athlete or higher is having at least one parent who's a D1 scholarship athlete or higher. Like is that purely from talent? Probably not actually. But some of it is >> uh injury resilience, right? having an ability to kind of navigate all those systems and politics as you move up through sports because you've got some experience with it. There's there's a lot of stuff. I I >> Your parents want you to be a D1 athlete, so they tell you to take a lower scholarship so they can tell their friends that their kid is a D1 athlete and [laughter] then they make you do club sports starting from age three with no fun all the way through. >> I mean, it's it's a dangerous thing to even talk about, you know, and for a lot of for a majority of the kids, it's it's it's really really tricky and it can be counterproductive. Um, you know, I've I treated a a set pair, a matching set of uh twin girls who had ACL non-cont injuries. They were mirror images. So, one was her right knee, one was her left. I don't remember which one was first. Um, and they were only like I'm going to say 10 days apart. Um, so like the the the first sister was like in for her second or third posttop visit with me. Um, and uh they came in and the mom's like, "You're not going to believe this, but and sure enough, her her sister had uh done her knees." So, um, you know, they both rehabbed great. um uh as far as I know, you know, they uh didn't have anything happen with, uh with their own contrlateral knees. Um but, uh it was uh it was mind-blowing for a lot of the patients in the room to see those two going through uh uh rehab because once you passed about week six, what they were doing was, you know, parallel to each other. um they had very similar uh pathways to getting better, you know, no big surprises. And so they kind of just got on to what's essentially the same timeline and and rolled, you know, but they were in the clinic like, you know, tossing a ball to each other for balance exercises and then kicking a ball to each other for uh it was I mean it was >> people were like, "Am I being punked right now? Like what's going on here?" >> It was darkly funny, you know, and I had to remember which one I was talking to at a given time. They were awesome girls. I mean, they were so easy to work with, which which obviously uh contributes to how how well they did. But, um, yeah. So, that stuff's out there. we're working more with um I just uh watched a really really interesting course on uh uh brain mapping after uh ACL reconstruction and uh having to really it basically put some more science behind a lot of things that we were already doing with like reactive training when people are in uh those phases of their rehab and working their way back toward whatever field it is they're going to be on. Um, you know, could you have people who if you were to map their brain activity as a baseline, you know, prior to having any injury where it's, let's say, off, you know, up to some certain threshold and maybe I mean, maybe we'll find something like that. I don't know. Yeah, it's interesting almost like trying to it match the brain activity before and >> yeah, >> you're operating it, you know, with the reaction things at a more of a subconscious level. You're not you're not consciously thinking, okay, I've got to like me, I'm not thinking, okay, I've got to catch myself at the bottom of this push-up when I'm leaving the ground. It just it happens. >> It's always one of the, you know, it's one of the cliches that's true, you know, in just about any competitive thing that one is going to do. Like, you can't be out there thinking about it. Um, and when someone's been rehabbing and they're, you know, thinking, "Okay, left knee, stay in position, stay in position, stay in position, stay in position, move my arm, stay in position, move my leg, stay in position." It's very different from how you're going to have to have to react once you uh advance phases. So, >> yeah, same thing for your back after a back injury or perceived injury. >> Yeah. And that I mean with imaging there's a lot of I think harm that happens from imaging of the back because maybe it's in that pre-est like counseling session right I talk to a patient I say hey >> you know you've got this ridicular pain that's happening we're going to take a look we're probably going to see some things there but it doesn't mean that's where the pain is coming from >> and I always go back to like my early days working in the hospital where um we have pain is the fifth or sixth vital sign whatever whatever it is thanks to the the Sackler family. Um but we go in and you ask patients every patient you know what's your pain level and very commonly younger adults some back problem are reporting some level of pain >> but then I see these like very obvious cases of like kyphosis in older adults and >> um Drew or Cameron maybe we can put a picture of that in post to kind of show people what this is >> and it's you know you go in you expect oh this person's just got to be like suffering and ask this 80-year-old lady it's like what's your pain level it's like Yeah. >> Zero. >> Yeah. So, what what pain? >> Yeah. It's really interesting. So, >> I wonder if you see that too in your work where people are like, >> "Yeah, I got this X-ray that showed this or I got this MRI that showed this." And then they become tethered to that diagnosis. >> Yeah, certainly. And it's a conversation that we have pretty often, especially because a lot of people in this are seeing us where they expected to get imaged maybe more heavily uh than they did before they were sent to therapy. And we talk about some of the reasons that that might be. Uh, one of which is that like you just described, you know, for whatever it is we're talking about, whether it's their spine, their knee, their shoulder, um, you know, uh, you're likely on imaging to show some abnormality, right? Those numbers only go up as you get older. But even someone with uh you know even a younger person with a um you know more of an acute mechanism uh you know something's likely to show. How does that relate to your symptoms? Uh if it is a source of your symptoms, what's the likelihood that it's going to always be a source for symptoms? And as opposed to, you know, uh, kind of like we were talking about with the anti-inflammatory steps and so on, like what's the likelihood that the situation around that abnormality is just going to calm down, your body is going to adapt to it, and if you can reestablish your dynamic control uh around, let's say, that joint, uh, that you're likely to move forward with this just proving to be an episode. Um and those likelihoods for most things are quite high. And so um and I we have that conversation pretty frequently. And then there are cases where someone uh who's been working with us and has improved to some point might still go and and seek imaging and they're not necessarily wrong for doing it. I mean, you know, it's more information that you can have to help make your next decision or set of decisions. Uh, but I usually if that person's been making progress, I'm going to counsel them like, hey, like, you know, there's only a couple things you might see that would really generally generate a a distinct change in course for you, you know. So, you want to be prepared to just take this as more information in case, you know, another episode occurs sooner than later or where you get kind of hung up in the, you know, 70s something percent of improvement and and might need to take a different step. uh whether that's you know uh uh something anti-inflammatory or something with biologics or you know a surgical step if that's going to be the move and um but that your your your MRI doesn't really definitively in a lot of cases tell you that it's just more information to consider for for the next decision. >> Yeah. And I I think we're probably seeing like people surprised at the lack of imaging because it's made its way into more like CE material now. >> Yeah. >> Where it's like, oh actually we you know we're doing this but we shouldn't have been kind of like the whole peanut allergy thing like you know don't give kids peanuts and then now you realize that well you've created a lot more allergies than would have otherwise happened. >> So we find these things out in medicine and there's changes that get communicated to patients and how people receive those varies. As far as you people who I'd say a lot of people are always looking for a quick fix, right? So, >> how do either yourself or physical therapists view things like chiropractic adjustments, dry needling, uh cupping, kinesiotape, anything you want to put in that bucket of like a quick fix? And some of the like maybe some of them have some utility, maybe some of them don't. >> But I'm curious for people listening like what is your opinion on the value of each of those? I think there's certainly going to be cases where uh uh especially like something acute or uh subacute or um a a new symptom for for someone where uh a chiropractic adjustment done properly can be very useful for them. um when then coupled with like proper movement training and and reprogramming depending how that occurred you know how their how their symptoms were brought about um I without painting what's brought a brush I'm not you know we're not typically going to be in line with someone getting you know adjustments every week or month on an unending basis uh in my mind if you're uh if you're going to assume that there's something that is malaligned and assume that it can be uh physically realigned uh if it needs to be done at that frequency you're actually making it more likely to become malaligned again. Um uh which is you know probably more my opinion than anything scientific. um some of the other fixes that got out there uh you know publicly let's say you know chisio tape got really popular because of uh beach volleyball um things of that nature uh I haven't seen anything in practice or that leads me to believe that that there's a value to it beyond placebo and at best maybe a little bit of like self you know bio feedback you might feel the tape if you're getting out of position but you might not because there's a good chance it's already peeling off. So, um, again, that's just my viewpoint. We've been using needling more, dry needling, uh, in clinic. I don't practice it myself. When I've had clinicians who work with me who practice needling, we've seen really good effects. I've had it done to myself and uh um uh it's already um stuck around and grown at the clinical level in our setting uh for longer than most of the kind of come and go fads do, if we want to call it that. Um taping, cupping, those types of things. I I think there's more weight to the needling um based on what I've seen it do for people and that's clinical evidence. I I don't know honestly what's out there for uh more like you know controlled study. Um but uh it makes sense to me as a theory. Um and having experienced it myself and seen the changes it's made uh for several of our patients who have utilized it. Um, I think it carries a little more a little more weight than than some of the things that have come and gone during my my time in in clinic. Um, but I think we need to look at those things. Um, you know, with an open mind but critically, you know, um, that was the thing at the beginning when needling was getting out there and it's like, well, it's, you know, it's hard to do a controlled study for this. I'm like, "No, it's not." Like, >> you know, >> poke somebody with a pen uh and do dry needling on something else. The subject isn't going to know the difference. You're making you're that's your uh you know, you're accounting for a placebo that way. And you know, um it's uh uh you know, the uh the controls are available. So for me that was always my concern at the beginning like why isn't there you know decent controlled study and and evidence and so I think you do have to be critical about it but um you know I don't I don't write anything off until I see what it's doing hopefully with a population that I know and observe and then what gets out there you know in in study. >> Yeah. What about a magic wand that makes water more coherent? Is it is there anything you would say is for sure a gimmick? So, this is a a Gary Brea thing that's out there now. >> Um, you know, to me of the things that people are are using, um, you know, I work with a lot of throwing athletes. It's a it's a specialty I developed again through great mentorship and some people who really wanted to help me. Um but uh you know so I've developed a lot of work and a lot of training and continuing education help for other therapists for for overhead athletes and those associated injuries. Uh the what's out there now for like shoulder bracing for pitching scares me a little bit. Uh but I don't have like direct work with it. Like I've never had anyone in one. I did have one uh pitcher who came in and said that he had used a kinetic arm uh kind of brace uh um prior to being sent to see me, but he's not using it now and he was still sent to see me. So, but that's one. >> Um >> I think uh to me the the the canio tape is is real close to being in that category. I think there may be a little bit of physiology going on there. I don't I don't see much. You know, the KT had to pay uh you know, a class action and then kind of redevelop all their marketing and packaging to to take some claims uh out of the public eye for it, but they're still selling it. Um and so, uh it's real close to that category as far as things that are out there and kind of widely used. Um, that's another one of my favorite memes. It's uh happens to be an older woman in a swimsuit approaching the the [snorts] surf for what looks like it would be entering the water for a triathlon. And she's just like it's from it's a posterior view of her and she's covered from like heel multiple strips like up both legs all the way to her hips and stuff around both shoulders. and you know the caption is like you know may maybe sit this race out like um so you know the flip side of it is it's benign right like unless you're allergic to whatever adhesive they're using and so like >> you know I don't think it's enough that it's going to have someone really train their way through a a serious of any kind injury >> if just put some on my pec and attach it to humorous, it could replace the functionality of the >> pectoral t. I don't know if it would do that, but if you were, you know, otherwise healthy and, you know, you perform a notch better because you feel more secure about your shoulder, I don't think the KT tape is going to allow you to, you know, uh, you know, pick up a 150 pound dumbbell when you've only got an 80 pound capability. Um, and so, you know, if I don't see a real flag with someone's injury and they think the tape is helping them, like have at it. You know, it's it's your $15. You can do what you want with it. >> So, I don't know if it cost $15. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Well, that's good info. I do have one bonus question that was not on our list. >> All right. But uh I don't know if you've heard this, but I have heard that if you have Achilles tendinitis, >> then you can you are less likely to rupture it than if you don't. Perhaps because you rehab it. I'm not sure why, but when I asked chat GPT, >> what is my most likely next significant injury? I gave it my body size. I gave it my history of killitis and relatively poor flexibility. >> Mh. >> And my family history. And it still said Achilles tendon rupture, which I do have a [clears throat] family history of Achilles tendon rupture. >> Okay. >> Do you have any twins? >> I do not have any twins. Okay. I um I have two brothers and neither one has ruptured their Achilles. >> Neither has my mother or father. So kind of a distant more distant family history of Achilles tendon rupture. But would you say that chat GPT is likely not right or are you going to predict that yes indeed I will eventually rupture my Achilles? >> I would not predict that you indeed will. Um I am of the line of thinking based on my experiences with people and what I know to be out there that if you are playing your way through uh subaccute or chronic Achilles tendonitis I would put you in a higher risk category um until it's treated and resolved. Uh we know the constituency of the tendon changes not for the better. Uh it's likely to actually atrophy. Um and so you're you're in higher risk. Uh I think I don't know where saying that your risk is lowered would come from other than like you said maybe some people treat it and so ultimately as they come out of that they're if they've treated it well you know >> I haven't had symptoms in almost a year. >> Yeah. Their eentric control is better. There are other factors that affect foot and ankle stability is better. Some of their uh just you know dynamic programming uh brain mapping might be better. Uh it means there's a period of time where maybe the pain prevents you from trying as hard and so you're less likely to to have a bigger injury. Uh >> what would you predict is my most likely next significant injury >> based on a study from a long time ago when I first started. Um my concern aside from uh the Achilles itself would be one link up the chain and that would be having a non-cont knee injury of some kind. Whether it's a training related in like an endurance uh sport kind of way uh tendonopathy tenonitis thing or if you're uh working in a uh high-speed cutting sport, you know, a non-cont ligament or or cartilage injury just because your foot and ankle uh stability and your ground reactions are going to be impaired. Um and so that puts you at risk up the chain. Um, it's how I would how I would look at it. >> Are there two or three actionable items uh that I should do maybe on a weekly basis, twice weekly basis? Yeah. >> For for both the knee and the Achilles and ankle joint. >> In a case like that, I look at uh calf mobility. So, I would be uh rolling, massage gunning, uh having a a friendly partner of some kind who might do hands-on massage or seeking that care. Uh to uh improve mobility of the calf. Uh one so it'll respond better when you train it and two to take a notch of uh tension off your Achilles since your your Achilles should be very rigid, right? I mean, it's it's there to be under tension, but you can still be uh in trouble relative to that. >> I always think my Achilles stiffness helps me be a better sprinter. >> It does. Yeah. And so um >> so >> which brings us to the other thing like you want to get u on top of your uh like eccentric strength of your calf and the rest of that chain. Um and the transitions from eccentric to concentric which might at first be very controlled speeds as opposed to what people think of as plyometric but technically >> that's the phase uh as well as hip stability uh so that uh you know we're treating more of the entire chain and I would personally uh the Achilles is pretty superficial. I'd be icing it in and trying to help it locally, you know, with that uh inflammatory cycle that at this point is either going out of control or spinning its wheels and some of what is affecting that tendon constituency is the byproduct of that chronic inflammation. >> Yeah, I haven't had symptoms in almost a year. Certainly when it was very stiff and less mobile, I would do something like foam rolling or pre-workout massage, but only before. >> I have heard that the temporary increase in mobility doesn't last very long after massage or rolling. Yeah. >> Um, so then I would >> Yeah. an adult. >> Yeah. So then I would kind of use that >> preworkout only. I look at it as prep, >> you know, what are you going to do to prepare to move >> uh and take advantage of that uh because and an adult, yes, the that increase in mobility, let's say, is temporary. You know, >> you're not permanently loosening some fascia or you're not helping actually remodel the collagen bundles. >> If it is, it's it's at a very low percentage. So, how are you ready to do what you're going to do in that day or that session? And you've got probably a few hours, you know, where that's going to be effective for you. Um, I just was looking at the uh skimming uh study on uh different forms of like squat training in uh female rugby players. Here we are again. uh and these different modes of uh resisted squat jumps and their carryover to sprint speed um >> uh and then how long that lasted and they were looking at like 40% 1 RM and 80% 1RM and comparing their sprint speed right after and then 24 hours after. Um, and that's the, you know, kind of plasticity that, you know, you're talking about, just a different idea, right? Different mode of training, uh, and seeing how that carries over, which isn't your Achilles. >> You better have pretty good Achilles if you're going to train that way. >> Certainly. >> Yeah. So, I can't massage my Achilles to be as the same length as Dr. Gillette's. >> No, >> I have very long Achilles. That's That is true. >> Yeah, I noticed I noticed that on my way in. I just >> wasn't going to say anything. >> No. Uh, not great for CrossFit style squats. I will I will say not great. Could be worse though. Could always be worse. >> Yeah, I'm a good squatter. Not a uh not a very springy runner, though. >> Yeah, you should get into Olympic weightlifting. >> Yeah, I'll just I'll just enjoy my uh good calf insertions and tell myself that that's all that really matters. That's what women want. >> Yeah, you can add [laughter] ask Oseno about it. I don't know if you've seen >> soccer player, football player. >> Uh Chad Oseno. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. So, um I I would like to go back for a second if I may, and I should say what uh to the chiropractic question. >> A disclaimer, I Well, it's better than a disclaimer. I have several friends uh who I would trust to the end of this world as chiropractors. >> And I've Yeah. I've taken some course work that was led by really really good >> chiropractors who are treating, you know, in quotes the whole person. Um and and really doing a a great job of blending, you know, the movement training and the attention to the whole system uh with some uh adjustments and what I think most of the public pictures as traditional chiropractic. Uh and they're they're blending that in really really effective ways and they're doing really really good work with uh um rehabs and what we call like postrehab, you know. So, you've come to us for your pet repair, let's say, for 4 months, and you've been cleared to progress to full activity, and you might go work in one of their settings to work your way back fully to um your previous level or a little better uh of uh function in the gym or in a sport or uh or what have you. And that that uh that does exist and it's actually a growing, you know, growing proportion of uh of what's out there for chiropractic. So, in fairness, I did want to make sure I mention that. >> For sure. >> Yeah. >> You mentioned free assessments. How else could people get in contact with you or work with you if they have an injury or just want to come in and and see where they can improve? >> We do. Thank you. We do offer as a company free assessments. It's a one-time consult uh to evaluate an injury. And I always describe it more as like your triage. Is this going to benefit from physical therapy? And here's the reasons why and what we would do. Would you like to do that? uh and come in and see us as a patient for whatever the appropriate treatment plan might be. Uh which might be very short. Um does this have a red flag where we need to you know for this reason uh we need to have you see a doctor and uh get uh a physician's evaluation and consider imaging. That's a different conversation. um uh uh but it is not really safe for you to proceed without ruling out you know what this what this what these flags indicate. Uh or it's kind of more what we were talking about earlier. Uh you you know your shoulder's been painful for several weeks. It's uh weak relatively. Uh it's presenting as rotator cuff tendinitis. Is it possible you have a partial tear of your rotator cuff? Yes. uh we can proceed with treating it and here's all the reasons that it's safe to do that. Um you could see a physician first and see if you need to rule out more of a tendon, you know, substance structural injury and it's really, you know, your call and I can help you do that in in this way. Uh and almost all the time it comes down to one of those three conversations and then kind of help people with what to do next. patients can come and see us through what uh the therapy world calls direct access. So, you know, if you pulled your hamstring and uh uh we can help you get better faster and more comprehensively, which we can, um you can come in and see us without a prescription. And even in those types of evaluations, uh your insurance will cover it. And even in those types of evaluations, if we spot something that's a different flag, that really should get you into a doctor's office. uh will obviously inform you of it so that you can handle that properly and safely uh >> and and move forward that way. >> Uh the best way to reach me or any of our clinics um in my opinion, we have a few methods. Uh athletico.com has a pretty easy uh ability to search by your zip code and find the closest one. You can also just search uh by state. It's broken down state by state. I think Kansas City actually has its own uh search since we're on a state line. Um and then uh we can help you to set up from there. You can make an online appointment request, excuse me, that way. And that gets sent immediately uh to the clinic you choose and we'll be able to uh uh call you same day to set you up. Uh we really uh um it's a real thing. Uh unless you the patient have uh uh restrictions to your own schedule, uh we'll get everybody in in you know within two uh working days. Um and uh I think those are the the easiest way to get directly in contact with us. My clinic particularly is uh uh here well we're in we're in Leewood with you guys now. I'm in Overland Park at uh 95th in Antioch and we do have uh 19 locations around Kansas City if you consider Lawrence the Kansas City area which I would uh that that gives us 19 in the Kansas City area in the metro. >> Excellent. Well, thank you. Yeah, I I uh only have good things to say about my experience and uh you know, responsiveness, appointment flexibility. It worked out really well. Yeah. >> So, you know, thank you so much for your time and thanks for joining us on the podcast. >> Thank you very much for having me. I was excited when you asked and uh obviously a really good indicator of the experience that you had with with me and with everyone else in our clinic. So, I appreciate you uh inviting me to be on with you guys. For those that are watching, whether it's a question for James or myself, um, or, uh, really whoever, physical therapists in general, chiropractors, leave a comment below. Um, and otherwise, thank you for your time and may God bless you with health and happiness. >> [music]
