# Is this the BEST weight loss peptide?

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

The newest update from Kaggy Simma, which is Kaguritide, Simaglutide, also known as Ozimpic, is hot off the press. Eli Liy stock is uh down less than Nova Nordisk stock. They're actually both down, which is odd. But basically, Tzepide was better than this new drug Kagrima for weight loss. >> Interesting. I thought usually when uh like one stock goes down, the other one is like, "Oh, this is good for us because their drug is not as good as we thought." Yeah, it might be related to the whole thing with um Trump RX or I think that's just a >> I think it has nothing to do with politics, but basically the drug companies are going to have to compete with other GLP1s uh including laglutide which is generic by the way and dulaglutide which is still on the shortage list. So it could be compounded just just itself just cuz it's in shortage. But anyways they did a trial I think it was 84 weeks or so and it was just a couple percent behind tzepide. So tzepide which is known as munjaro or zepound is a gp1 and gip dual inretin whereas kagri simma simaglutide is of course oimpic it's a gp1 and kagri is kagalinotide which is an amalin agonist or amalin analog that's um a peptide that comes from the pancreas and it's a peptide so it must work right >> well it does work but about 2 and a half% less than they'd like it to. >> Yeah. >> So, 23% weight loss over 84 weeks is >> uh what the market said is not good enough, but >> it is good enough. It's a compound that you and I are both excited about because I think you're probably the one that told me this maybe five, six years ago talking about like, well, when you're looking at diabetes progression and beta cell failure, you're losing not only the ability to produce insulin, but the ability to produce amalin as well. >> And it's just not been thought of heavily. You know, there's there's one med out there that I think is a daily injection, but nobody really uses it outside of maybe a few indo. I think that's pramolinotide or simulin. >> Yeah, that's >> you can actually take it I believe three times a day. >> Three times a day. >> It's very similar to amalin. Not great. It's kind of the same thing when insulin first came out. If you take ultra fast acting insulin, that is not unless you have a pump. That is not a good uh basal regimen. So, same thing with amalin. >> Yeah. So, now they're actually targeting the receptor properly, I guess you could say. Um, and the results look good. Offhand, I don't know what the weight loss is from 2.4% 4% simaglutide. We can have somebody track that down and put it on the screen. >> But it's better than simaglutide alone. And Novo's response to this is like maybe we can put the >> pump those numbers up. Those are rookie numbers. Rookie numbers. Their answer is oh, we're going to increase the dose. >> Yeah. Double the dose, triple the dose. Hot take. I from a business standpoint, I get it. They want to prove non-inferiority, which is common in clinical trials. From a health standpoint, I want to know what happened with their body composition. Maybe they lost just as much fat but less muscle because they're way more insulin sensitive. Maybe their IGF-1 stayed more in the normal range, so there's not the risks associated with that, like carpal tunnel, etc. Maybe they had a better A1C. Maybe they had less hypoglycemic events. There's not a ton of them with either molecule, but maybe they had better metabolic health even with less weight loss. So with the same amount of weight loss, maybe that's even less concerning. Maybe they had an easier time eating their protein. So a lot of these questions are important and the even with the final results of the trial, I don't think that any of this data outside of the change in A1C is going to be posted. >> Yeah. And if they had something there like I don't know if triglycerides improve significantly right Novo is going to put out whatever their best data is to appease investors right >> so I don't think they have an ace up their sleeve but um I think those are important things and that should become the standard at some point right I mean we had the guideline shift talking about protein you know the RDA being adjusted and focusing on protein with every meal um more people than ever now I think doing some resistance training, lifting weights or doing some aerobic activity. So I I think there is this public interest in body composition over the number on the scale. It's it's still not the majority in my opinion, but I think it's shifting that way. So I don't know if it takes 5 years or 15 years to get there, but I think there will be more inclusion of, you know, body composition measurements in these metabolic therapies. >> Yeah. Here's another hot take. Few if anyone should take the max doses of any GLP1 unless they're diabetic or almost diabetic. If it's just for weight loss, most people are better off taking a much lower dose than the max dose and incorporating lifestyle changes instead. Much more sustainable, much easier to get off, significantly less dose dependent side effects. For insulin dependent diabetics, I think that amalin agonists are going to be much better from a glycemic control, insulin use and insulin sensitivity standpoint than increants when used in conjunction with an incretant. For example, I think that kagri simma is going to lead to better health outcomes in type 1 diabetics or significantly insulin dependent type two diabetics. >> Yeah. And do you know if they plan to release kagarentide just by itself or are they going to force it to be a combo product with simaglutide? >> This is infuriating to me but I don't think they plan to release it by itself. Even simil which is primalide was released by itself and I believe in combo and they studied it with insulin pumps. But anyways, as long as it's FDA approved, I'm happy because then if people can't tolerate simaglutide, for example, if they have multiple endocrine neoplasia, then I hope all compoundingies compound that because of that use exemption for a patient that can't have a GLP-1, but wants to use the uh kagralinotide molecule, that's going to be FDA approved. >> Yeah, the amalin targeting component of that. That's a good point. that actually might lead to lower cost for the patient that does benefit. The best GLP1 even better than rea than retatriide I think is going to be a combination of kagri kagarinide and tzepide. That's my prediction. It could be wrong but um I'm putting it here so that we can come back and check and replay it when I'm hopefully right. >> Yeah. As far as like best tolerated. Yeah. I mean there's with the real world data again maybe people are using lower doses than the clinical trials. I think that's kind of the trend you see and I mean the traditional medical system you generally see less weight loss than the trials are like forcing people to bump up every four weeks or they drop out of the study kind of thing. Sometimes they have some dose adjustment protocols in there, but you know 20% of people with paristhesas. I mean a lot of people don't like the feeling of their skin crawling, right? And I kind of joke that this is because they started exercising and taking beta alanine in a previous podcast. >> Yeah. >> But it does it does seem like messing with that glucagon system is creating this paristhesia >> um with retatrite specifically. And how much additional calorie burn do you get from that? It's not clear, >> right? And does that actually make people more energetic or does it make them even more tired? Right. Right now it's all just um influencers with their code for you know take 10% off get retatriide from this peptide website saying it's amazing >> whether they've taken it or not whether what they're taking is actually retatrite. We really don't know. It's kind of a a wild place to be. >> Yeah it is. So I think that pretty much covers it. That's we'll discuss the full study when it's out. Again, this is just the results that they probably reluctantly posted because they knew their stock was going to take a huge hit. So, that being said, this is not official investment advice. I don't know if you should buy or sell or whatever else. Like, live in the present and enjoy your family and friends and faith and whatnot. That's our that's our official advice for now, but it will be interesting to see what happens. >> Yeah. >> But what you should buy is labs at sagebio.com. Do you have a hard time keeping track of your blood work? Are your results more disorganized than a toddler's toy bin? Then you might have TML. Too many labs. But what you might not realize is that TML isn't a disease. It's a superpower. All you need is a way to organize. That's why I tried Sage Bio. Now I can use the data to improve my life. Ask your doctor about Sage Bio. Actually, don't. They'll ask you when they see your labs. Side effects of Sage Bio may include sudden clarity, improved decision-making, better sleep, becoming more attractive, and earning a higher income. In rare cases, users report excessive smuggness when showing graphs to friends. Get started by going to sagebio.com today. >> Yeah. >> Help support the channel and get the best, most accurate lab essays and the best visualizer available. >> Yeah. even if you're not a Gillette health patient. Go to sage bio.com. You can use our code sarcasm 12 if you're a podcast listener and check your IGF-1 before hopping on a GLP-1 of any type. Do what you're going to do with your uh body at least inside of utilitarianism. Um but yeah, I think that covers it. So, as always, let us know your questions below. Thank you for your time and may God bless you with health and happiness.
