# How To Do Steroids Safely

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

So, I heard that you took some nanderlone in order to help your pec repair, but did you stick it out more than two days? >> I did, unlike some people who have tried it, you know, post surgery and run into issues presumably. Um, I did this for believe it was right at 12 weeks to get a little bit extra muscle. How did you gain muscle on nanderlone if your pec was torn? >> Yeah, I actually lost I would say significant muscle on nanderlone while my pec was torn. >> But less than you would have otherwise or why did you do it? >> Yeah, I don't know that it is any more or any less than I would have otherwise. There's some preclinical data that suggests you know neanderlone might be helpful in um I believe it was more rotator cuff or um some sort of pathology like that. But I happened to be in a place with my fertility where I had been off of dutasteride enough for it to be completely out of my system. And because there's not a lot of data out there on nandrallone only hormone replacement therapy with estradile added back, I suppose you could say I did it a little bit to learn uh about the options for patients who perhaps don't tolerate testosterone replacement therapy, which probably works for 95% of people, but of course it's not for everybody. And um we'll get into the labs and see if this is something that could be considered for anyone. >> Yeah. And as we know, a lot of females like to do this. Although a lot of females have masculineization called viralization in medicine when this happens. But nandrallone is not known for being particularly masculineizing. It's known for being less androgenic. So maybe it's the DHT that masculinizes them. And maybe it's not, but um you know it I certainly see a lot more women on nanderlone plus estradile than men on nanderone plus estradile. Um which estester did your physician prescribe for nanderlone? Was it phenyl propriionate? Um which for estradile did your physician prescribe? Yeah, I would have actually been thrilled to try the NPP, you know, the shorter acting version of that, but I don't believe that at least any reputable compoundingies that I'm familiar with um compound that. And the estradile was actually commercial uh estradiol valerate in believe that's in castor oil actually. It's quite thick. >> Uh came from Amazon Pharmacy. I believe a couple weeks after I filled the first vial, they asked me if I wanted another one, even though that vial would last years and years and years at the dose that I was taking. So cool. >> I found that a bit comical. >> Why does Amazon love you taking estrogen? >> They want Jeff Bezos to be the only alpha. >> They want you to live longer because estrogen's healthy for you so that you can use it longer. Yeah, I think that Jeff Bezos is just on a traditional cookie cutter TRT stack. He's gotten great results. We've talked about that in the past. Um, did you take a whole bunch of Nanderlone in order to, you know, do the influencer thing and say I was just on TRT plus? >> Yeah, I took 100 milligrams per week of Nanderlone, which >> per day >> per week. Two 50 milligram shots. So, I think it was like a Monday, Thursday. And I think that was probably a bit of an undersshot in terms of like the androgenic effects what somebody might use for a androgen replacement therapy. But presumably that's a little bit more anabolic than your average TRT dose, especially with the estradiol added in. It's probably a little more anabolic than 100 milligrams of test sip, for example. >> Since Nanderlone is bio identical, how many milligrams does the body make per day? You mean micrograms? >> Yeah. Uh, in all seriousness, nandrallone is one of those things that's technically bio identical. It's detectable actually in higher amounts during pregnancy and it's not really present in any clinically significant amount whatsoever unless you're injecting it. So, it's I really wouldn't consider it a significant endogenous androgen. So, since it is a steroid, I assume your labs looked like trash when you were on these. >> Yes. >> Yeah. We've got all the labs here to review. Um, it's a pretty solid panel. It's not everything that I check every time. Um, but one of the things that was uh surprising at the time, but in retrospect, I think makes sense is that my hematocrit went up to 52%. The highest that I've ever seen it. Um, I didn't have like apnea or anything that started to like emerge from this. Um, but seeing that it had a pretty potent effect on my bone marrow and red blood cell production makes me understand why you see a lot of runners get busted for dander. >> Yeah. And actually trembbleone too. Both 19 nor testosterone derivatives. There are surprising amount >> distance runners and sprinters >> that maybe consumed oxtail, maybe took trenmbbolone, who knows? So, your cardio probably didn't get much better uh given that you were also um you know rehabbing your pec. But this >> speaking of cardio, a little side note, and again there's more variables here, but I did do a little bit of light probably zone one, probably more zone one than zone two uh recumbent exercise bike the morning prior to surgery. And ask your surgeon and anesthesiologist of course about this, but I felt like I did not have the post anesthesia brain fog or fatigue as much. Now could have been that I got less anesthesia than I have with prior orthopedic surgeries. >> U but there is some data that suggests that helps your body to clear it out bit quicker postoperatively. >> I could see that that's a great idea. Um and I can also see why it's not a great idea to inject large amounts of nandolone. Again, it's kind of classically known for really disregulating something called RAS, renin angotensin eldoststerone system. And uh you know, anecdotally and in the literature, it looks like there is a um basically it think of it as an inverse ARB or ACE inhibitor like lysinopril or lartin. It does the opposite thing. So high blood pressure is common. cardiac remodeling, but not the type that you want. The negative cardiac remodeling, not a positive thing. That's also kind of classic. >> Does it work well for patients with POTS? >> It might. >> They have problems with low blood pressure. >> Yeah. I mean, I'm not 100% against an, you know, it also likely works quite well for patients with anemia as well. >> Sure. I think that's one of the original indications perhaps. >> Mhm. So, you know, it um like any other molecule, there's positives or downsides, but I suppose you're no longer on this. Why did you stop it? Did you get the benefit from it? Was was it not as beneficial as you thought? >> Yeah, I don't think it's a at least for me a suitable replacement for testosterone plus dutasteride. In order of like androgenicity, I would say just testosterone by itself with no ancillaries is more androgenic than the combination. and I was on which dosages we can put up on the screen um 50 milligs of nanderlone dino8 twice per week and 0.8 8 milligrams of estradiol valerate twice per week as well. Um, nanderone is in the middle there. It's less androgenic, but I think even just testosterone with the daily half milligram of dutasteride is even less androgenic than the nanderlone. >> Sort of how I felt based on my skin's oil production and um kind of thinking about my scalp and hair when I was taking it for about three months, maybe a touch longer. Um, that was sort of how I was evaluating it and guessing and the blood work kind of lined up with that. I was um not necessarily surprised to see that my DHT was actually higher than it is when I'm on testosterone and dutasteride. It was 6.3. >> Yeah. and that is not coming from that and I don't think that it's a cross-detected dihydro andone but your DHEA is high enough to where certainly there's other sources of androgens like adrenal androgens where this DHT could be coming from far upstream and it is surprising that this is higher than your DHT on testosterone. >> Yeah. Yeah, that's what I thought and then sort of thought about it um you know while I was on it. And I like, yeah, I think I'm still a bit more androgenic than I would like to be. Uh, and then the lab work uh showed that. And recently my DHT came back at 3 point something. So I think that for me, you know, that DHEA or the percentage that I convert of any testosterone in the tissue to DHT is just higher genetically. >> Yeah. And of course, if you're on gutster or even if you're on gutster and andone, gutster will prevent some five alpha reduction other than just testosterone. So testosterone to DHT, progesterone to dihydrop progesterone or um you know basically reduced progesterines and also other androgens in a storyis cascade. >> Yeah. And that's a a good point to bring up is why wouldn't you just take nandrallone with dutasteride? Um, I've actually had patients come from other clinics where they were prescribed this combination and >> that actually makes your hormone replacement significantly more androgenic because you don't have the inactivated dihydroanderone. It's just nandrallone that's binding everywhere and one gentleman said it was the worst acne he ever had in his life. >> Wow, that's impressive. Um, any other thoughts on nandrallone? Would you do it differently? Would you just do testosterone and dutasteride? Would you add in some other peptide um at the same time? >> Yeah, the only thing I So, I used the BPC157, TB500, the nandelone, the estradiol, um you know, collagen, sauna, cardio, physical therapy, you know, sort of the foundational things. I didn't do anything to increase my growth hormone. I have a a pretty reasonable IGF-1 that's usually above 200. >> So I don't know that there was a whole lot there to be gained. Um and I just at some point you want to not be as much of a pin cushion and that's a you know a daily injection. It would be another daily injection to add. >> Um I don't think I would do more inone. Um if I could get this knowledge probably would have just gone back to testosterone and dutasteride. But sort of knowing now like okay this many milligrams of exogenous estradile is going to convert to roughly this in terms of the serum estradile and >> actually was the highest my SHBG has been. >> Um the lipids were not um as bad as I'd expect. You know the labs I've seen are usually people coming from other clinics on a combination of testosterone andone with pretty bad lipids. My LDL was 81. Uh the disclaimer there is I was on 10 megs of ezettomide which I >> tend to respond fairly well to and I I think it was similar on my last most recent set of labs with testosterone dutastride and still in the picture. I think it was in the upper 70s or lower 80s. >> If you weren't on any of those things that you mentioned, how much longer do you think it would take for your pec to heal? And how is your pec doing today? >> Yeah, I don't know. I didn't want to be in the control arm or the placebo arm of my recovery. >> Um, so maybe it sped up the process. Well, in terms of time to doing certain things, it didn't speed up it at all, right? Because you're not going to I'm not going to be doing pressing or fly movements two weeks or four weeks after surgery, regardless of what happens. But in terms of getting my strength back to where it is today, where I'm probably about 90% on the right side, >> um, you know, maybe the tissue healed a little bit stronger. I I did have like minimal to no pain during the recovery after postop. >> So, some of those things probably helped, but I don't know the exact magnitude. Yeah, maybe I got back to if I'm trying to predict if I get back to 100%, maybe it's 10 or 20% faster. But I think the foundational thing is like having a good surgeon and following the PT religiously. >> Um, and then, you know, like the nutrition and protein intake, which, you know, I drop some weight, drop some muscle mass, you're going to have that if you're not using kind of half of your body. >> Um, but keeping the protein intake and nutrition pretty high, that way you're giving your body everything it needs to heal. That's probably the 70% of it. And then the >> hormones and peptides, you know, maybe that's another 25 or 30%. >> Yeah, I like how you said keeping the protein type components high. Not everyone needs to take, you know, uh, leucine precursors and not everyone needs to take collagen even, but it certainly doesn't hurt. And some people like to take, um, you know, HMBB and basically everything that you can possible if there's not a significant downside. So, I think that's reasonable. But those are the things that really move the needle. Yeah. >> The big concepts, >> I think. So, um, what did you think about the prolactin? Everyone says anandrallone raises your prolactin. >> Yeah. It doesn't always raise it. What was your prolactin on andone? >> 6.6. >> It's pretty low. And you were not on any dopamine agonist at the time. >> No. And my estradile was 47. And this is an LCMS estradile. So that's actually an overshot from what I was targeting. I was trying to land around 30. Um but you know estradiol would tend to upregulate the gene transcription of prolactin and I have seen gaison onanderone and testosterone with ovative prolactin. So something about that combination seems to be the driver there. >> Yeah. Um it's hard to say you know some people think that it's its progesterrogenic activity. Some people think that uh you know somehow that interacts with estradiol receptor signaling the prolactin gene release. Some people think that um you know it has to do with uh more tren than nanderlone and people just think they're on nanderlone but they're actually on trenalone. Pretty similar molecules that could be anecdotally >> get it from a pharmacy. It's hard to know. >> Exactly. Anecdotally I certainly see a trend driving that up more. So maybe people think they're taking NPP because they're smart and they'd rather take NPP than andone decanoate. I probably would too. >> Sure. >> Um but then they just end up taking a different molecule. Yeah. Any other thoughts? >> Um I'm trying to think of other questions people might have. My heart rate was elevated probably five beats per minute, but I think that was more from like having surgery and the stress of that rather than the nandallone itself. I wouldn't say that that was significantly more stimulating. Um blood pressure was, you know, one teens over 70s to low 120s over low 180s kind of by normal. Um outside of those first few days, you know, I had some pain. Of course, I I didn't even check my blood pressure. You know, it's going to be elevated and it doesn't really matter. >> I'm not going to take a PRN blood pressure medication posttop day one to normalize that. >> Um and it could have been low, right? because there was some pain medications, opiates on board, they're going to tend to drop that. >> Yeah. Um, did you try to stay in a caloric surplus or deficit or just right at maintenance? >> Um, I tried to go into a slight surplus and I did gain a bit of weight once I was able to like train with some, you know, weight on this side. I went back to, I guess, what was a slight deficit, but like a previous maintenance. I didn't do any meticulous calorie tracking, but I was trying to at least maintain or gain weight postoperatively because that by itself, the calorie surplus can be a little bit muscle sparing. >> My last question, if you were in a bit of a surplus and you continued to eat your high fructose blueberries, do you know or do you think you added a lot of visceral fat? Yeah, I did continue to eat those blueberries and I am not convinced that my surplus was enough to be problematic. Of course, this blood work is what uh 8 weeks in something like that. So, if you're looking at the insulin and my A1C and glucose, glucose was 80, insulin was less than five, A1C I think was 5.1. So, I don't think I would have been metabolically deranged enough to be in trouble from the fructose I was consuming. >> That's what those rats think, too. >> Yeah, good thing I'm not a rat. >> Yeah, true. Me, too. Um, if there's any other questions, let us know in the comments. Those are really my main questions for you. So, hopefully neither one of us has a pec tear again, but also hopefully people can learn some from how that rehab went. >> Yeah. So hopefully people find this interesting. I've gotten several questions on social media since I think this has been discussed briefly on some podcasts but not kind of with the labs and the common questions alongside of it. So you know whatever specifics people have you maybe we can do a second podcast or just answer those things in the comments. So leave those below. U let us know what you think and as always may God bless you with health and happiness.
