# Protein Bar Taste Test | Featuring @proteinbrospodcast

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

All right. Well, welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast. We are very excited to have two guests, Kyle and Jeff. Um, managers, owners, supplement experts, more than 35 years in the supplement industry. Uh, you know, the, uh, people behind Supplement Superstore that all of us in the Midwest know and love. And what people don't know is that you also own the vitamin shops and GNC's in area, too. Right. It's like a little monopoly. Just kidding. that that part is not true. >> Vertical integration, >> the illusion of choice. >> Yes. But uh you were so kind to have me on your podcast multiple times now, so people can go check that out if they want. >> Um but yeah, we basically just stole your idea. So we have a bunch of uh protein bars, protein drinks, and other things, protein mac and cheese. Uh we have today actually as well that we are going to try. >> Let's go. Let's go. >> Looking forward to it. >> Yeah. We have tasted an unbelievable amount of supplements in our time and so at this point I feel like we are very well uh very well ready to try anything you could throw our way today. >> Feel equipped. Let's do this. >> Feel equipped. >> The first one is David Bar versus Grip Bar. So David Bar is known for having great macros, high protein. I think it's only 150 calories. And David Bar is actually com sorry grip bar is actually comparable. None of us have tried this. Uh, have you guys had many bars that are made mostly from casein protein? >> It's a good question. >> Yeah. Uh, I would say I would say those out because most most protein bars are going to have like milk protein isolates in them and and whey proteins. >> So, first things first, which which flavor do you want us to try first? The peanut butter. >> Yeah, probably peanut butter. Yeah, let's do >> that as reference. >> This is kind of like a peanut butter chocolate chip. Yeah, let's compare it to that one. First and foremost, these do have double the amount of carbohydrates and 45 more calories is what I noticed. >> It's 195 calories. >> It is >> not too surprising given that they do not have fake fat. >> I also want to Yeah, you can see the the fat content is is much higher, but they do use alulose, right? Which is like a a quarter calorie >> per gram. >> Does it say how many grams of alulose? >> 11. >> 11. That's quite a bit. >> Nice that they list it out because you have a couple of these. You're looking at a lot of alulose with some GI side effects potentially. >> David bar has an unknown amount of alulose in it. >> Impression it's more of a natural tasting bar than the David Bar. Has a more natural flavor than uh than the David bars do. Consistency is relatively similar. >> Really? >> Mhm. >> I think I've tried these. I like the crunchers. Um, >> very different. I just had another I had a bite of David bars. I've already compared both. Like we'll go back to the grip. >> I'm a I'm a sucker for when they put the little crunchies in there. >> Cal and I are similar on the they have a crisp or crunch to keep it taste like you're just eating like something super soft. Mhm. >> Um when you're going low carb or low calorie. >> Mhm. >> Um in recent years you've seen a big jump in protein chips and other protein items, protein pretzels. >> The crunch the crunch bars, right? Like the strawberry one. That one is top tier. >> What crunch bar are you talking about? >> Power crunch. >> Okay. >> Has like a wafer strawberry. Totally very good. >> Yeah. >> But >> basically a cookie though, >> right? >> When you're in the like one bar territory, one bar by one brands. >> Mhm. the fiber is so high, you could technically be eating those and stay in ketosis. >> And so I've and I've did this while being in ketosis. >> I could eat two one bars a day and stay in ketosis versus a crunch bar, >> the power crunch bar like you're talking about, Kyle, those are so much higher in carbohydrate that I would venture to guess just some assume that you would not be able to. And so the protein also is much lower. It's 15 in a Power Crunch bar versus 20 and higher than ones we're talking about. So, when it comes to the grip bar, the first thing I want to call out is that it's just a much bigger bar. Yeah. >> More girthy, you would say. You could say. >> Yeah. Jeff's big on volume. >> I am. If you're um >> volume of food, you get to eat. >> That's right. If you're going to be eating a health snack or health food um and it's supposed to be replacing uh something that you would consider to be a whole food meal um or if it's going to be like a in between meal kind of uh snack, it's just nice if it's actually satiating. And so if I get to enjoy it longer, savor the food longer, I'm gonna be a fan of that. And so I like that even though it's 45 more calories, the grip bar does give you a lot more surface area, a lot more volume, >> um, and probably, you know, make you feel like you had something more substantial because I do power through a David a David bar pretty quick. >> Looks like it's about twice the size, but Cameron's pretty good at math, so he can tell us what the calorie to weight ratio is on that. One thing to consider is I don't see any soy protein or collagen protein in the grip bar. I know that David bar has gotten some heat because it kind of has like protein blend. They don't really talk about how many grams, but collagen protein is not considered a high quality protein for things like muscle protein synthesis. It has other benefits. And I do wonder how they get the crisp without the soy protein crisp. >> That's true. I wonder what they're made out of out of. My >> styrofoam maybe. >> Man, this is so different. The rocky road versus the peanut butter >> when when in the supplement industry. This is not always true, but this is true. A lot of times when things first come to market, their their macros will be a certain stated macro and as they rise in popularity, >> eventually somebody will do testing and those macros will change. um most famously done this happened to Quest bars. And so basically when a new new bar or snack hits the market, I always look at the macros with like um a little uh like well we'll see after a year typically is the way that I look at it because >> Icon Meals popcorn was another famous case where um there was a there was a time you know we've been around for a lot of peaks and valleys when it comes to trends on protein snacks and there was a time where this icon meals protein popcorn was you know we were selling 30 bags a day. I mean, it was just it was so indulgent and >> the macros were not good back then, too. >> That's true. That's true. >> The original bad the original good macros were still not great. >> They had talked about well, there was basically a one:1 ratio of protein to carbohydrate >> on that popcorn when it first came out. And then after um some extensive sales and some people, you know, looking a little further, magically one day it showed back up and it had a 4 to1 ratio. >> Wow. quadruple the amount of carbs than they initially stated. Quadruple the amount of sugar. >> That's great insight. That's unbelievable. I did see I believe it was Consumer Labs tested David bars and they said it had more grams of fat in it. But I assume that's because when they tested it, they did the calorimetry, whatever it is, and then they just bas basically burned up the fake fat, >> right? >> Which is that triglyceride. Then they insert something between the glycerol backbone and the triglycerides tails. So I you know it's just it is it does have calories. is just not absorbed kind of like fiber. >> Sure. >> Kyle, go ahead. >> I was going to ask you about, you know, with alulose being used in things. Now, >> what does alulose do to uh to calories? >> Yeah. So, alulose is very interesting. It's actually not a zero calorie absorbed sugar, but it is a fivecarbon sugar like fructose. >> So, it competes for the same absorptions and receptors and >> whatnot as fructose. So if you consume it with other sugars and alulose is technically a natural non-nutritive sweetener but if you ate just alulose you can absorb and use about 0.25 to 0.5 calories per gram but because of the thermic effect of food it mostly even zero. >> Yeah. So that's why they call it a net zero but it's not you know you can absorb a little bit of it and um use it as energy. The first protein bar that I remember that came out with Alulos and they used it pretty hard as a sales point was the Quest Hero Bar, which I believe is no longer made. >> No. >> Uhired on our shelves. >> 15 grams of protein and it was delicious. >> Uh it was a coated bar. >> Uh but it had the alulose in it. And they were the ones that were trying to basically be the pioneers of educating everybody on alulose, but they couldn't actually put on the label >> that, you know, for every one gram of alulose, it's actually only a quarter calorie is how they were marketing it. Uh, but they were like, "We're not allowed to say it's only a quarter calories, so we're going have to put the total amount of carbs on here per gram." But imagine and you're only getting four grams or a fourth of what this carb total is. >> And uh, didn't catch on, but it seems like it's doing really well now. And in other bars, >> yeah, in the age of CGMs, too, like people will see the alulus sort of competing with other carbohydrate sources and, you know, kind of flatlining their glucose in a positive way or if you take alose just by itself can actually dip glucose a little bit. >> Okay. What do you guys think? Do you have a hypothesis on the David bar as of why they're they're not being upfront about the amount of value they're using? >> I've asked several people that are in the know with David bar and um I do not get a clear answer. >> Yeah, I think that's their mysterious theme they're going for, right? It's the shin the shiny gold bar. Um they've got these kind of little bit different ads, right? It's not like your stand like bodybuilder who's um just saying eat this get huge. It's like a little bit different, right? I haven't seen any marketing kind of like theirs. So, I don't know if it's just it's simpler to not disclose what these things are and then not test them precisely and you have a little bit more wiggle room or if they're actually trying to just have that be part of the mystique of the >> The real question is, have you guys had the cod? >> That was my next question. Yeah, >> I'm waiting for the birthday cake flavor on that. Yeah, when you're >> fishy birthday cake when you said the uh you know the interesting marketing I was like then have you had the cop? >> I saw that. Yeah. >> Unbelievable. And and it wasn't like a gimmick. They're continuing to make this on a consistent basis. So >> yeah, I thought it was a marketing thing at first but and it was but also it's a product. >> Truly. Yeah. >> I think that's great to give us. >> We can give you protein brosating. >> Yes. Let's let's do a rating and then do shakes. >> Yep. >> Okay. I I would say that because of the texture, I enjoy the texture. It's kind of got that that feeling like if I was on a hike, I'd want this in my bag. It's a good midhike uh bar, it doesn't taste overly artificial because uh a lot of bars are just disgusting with how artificial they taste. Um and I do enjoy the crunchies that Jeff is uh chewing on right now. So, I would say I'm probably a 7.2 is where I would land. It's a very good bar. It's probably something that I would actually buy, which I can say that most things that are in the uh snack item uh portion of the supplement industry, I would not buy. So, that's my score, 7.2. >> For reference, go ahead and rate the David >> to compare it. >> Yeah. Ooh, that's tough, man. Because I've ate a lot of David bars and I do enjoy David bars. But I will say this, the more that you eat something over time, and you know this, you kind of get to the point where it's like when you taste it, they have the same taste and you just kind of get tired of it. And that's essentially where I'm at with David Bars. I think when I originally rated David Bars in the beginning, I think I was like a nine or something like that because they are the first time you have a David Bar, you're like, "Dude, this is great. It's soft. It's It's got the crunchies in it. It, you know, I I think the first one we had was the cookie dough bar. The cookie dough bar is like It actually tastes like cookie dough. Um >> what we're having right now. >> Yeah. And so I think this was a peanut butter one, isn't it? >> Yeah. Chocolate chip peanut butter. >> My bad. >> What's up? >> No, I'm wrong. It is. I'm wrong. Cookie dough. >> Anyways, yeah, the one we're having right now. Anyways, yeah, I think uh I I think I rated the David Bar pretty high in the beginning, but now I'd probably say I'm probably like in the same range, 7.2 with a David Bar. It's not the one that I'm reaching for as much as I was when it first came out. >> So, do you anticipate your score on the grip would go down >> if I ate him as much as I ate the David Bars? Because I was hammering David Bars there for a while. Me, too. Um, yeah, it might possibly. >> Well, I have a pretty similar take, but I will say I value maybe some things a little different. I do like that Kyle mentioned like the midhike. Uh, I think that, um, a bar that can be brought with you anywhere, uh, especially when you're in a place where you're traveling and you don't have a, uh, maybe you don't trust the food where you're at, for example, um, it's really just hard to find a place where you could just get like a grilled chicken breast and rice uh, while you're traveling, you know, and so if I'm on a hike, most bars are going to melt. And so, the fact that you can have a I I just think it's always a positive when you have a bar that isn't coated u, but still has a high level of protein. >> It's a good point. coating >> the coating of bars is very common. Um but and also let's be clear like they really do a lot for the taste if you have a coated bar. And so when David Bar first launched to give it some some real credit where credit's due, they were one of the first to have a non-coated bar that's also very high in protein um that tastes like it's supposed to taste as far as like whenever it says red velvet, you will taste red velvet. When it says chocolate chip cookie dough, you will taste cookie dough. But to Kyle's point, the base of a David bar is the same. And once you've had, let's say, three or four different flavors, every David Bar finish is the exact same. And so it starts on the front end >> like a glass of wine. >> Yeah. >> Finish. The finish of it. >> I'm serious. Yeah. I mean, we are protein somalier and uh >> if I have a the front end of every bite, you're going to get it. You're going to smell it. And it all goes into the senses as far as how it's supposed to be. But the the finish on a on a David bar is just this like overwhelmingly buttery taste um that is probably that mystery fat that's in there um that you can taste on every single bite. So if you're looking for it, you'll find it. If you're not looking for it, you'll find it. It's a lot of buttery taste. So the on the grip bar, let's get back to what we're talking about here. The grip bar, I think the peanut butter one I liked extremely more than the Rocky Road sea salt. I would say that the grip, if I would have tasted this without knowing the David Bar existed, I'd be giving it that real high score, like an 8.5 or a nine. Just to be clear, Protein Bros have never reviewed anything at a 10. Um, we're pretty tough. >> The tens don't exist. >> Um, we're pretty tough on our scores if I'm being honest. But >> because of the 25 grams of protein and under 200 calories, it being non-coated, it being a lot of bites, the peanut butter, what's their whole flavor? They're calling it peanut butter chocolate, excuse me, peanut butter chocolate chunk. Two grams net carbs. Like, this is really innovative. I I give it a lot of credit. I think this thing is >> worth a 9.1 as it sits. >> 9.1. That's a big one. >> But the but the Rocky Road sea salt, I would give it like a 6.2. >> I I to go back to what you guys were saying too is like if I would get tired of it, I think I wouldn't get tired of it because it has a more natural flavor than David Bar. It's more of like a uh >> like I said, it's more like a granola bar than this, which is like a protein bar. >> Both of them though, >> 25 grams of protein. I believe David Bar has 25 as well. 28, >> which are I mean already puts it in the 99, you know, it's it's better than 99% of bars that are trying to get away with basically as little amount of protein as possible. >> And historical products, you'll will tell you if it's anything above 25 grams, it's going to go into this whole other echelon. And this is where I would say that you guys are really on point with the David Bar being so innovative because before that if it was over 20 grams of protein or even 25 it was always thrown into that uh you know meatthead the colossal 100x 500 calories of just random stuff falls out the colossus bar the metrics 100. These are all really like 400 plus calorie bars. >> You find them on the bottom shelf of a gas station. Um, formerly the Supreme Bar. >> So, they're a dollar at Vitamin Shop. >> You guys remember the Oh yeah bars? That's who actually eventually came out with one brands, >> but the Oh, yeah. >> ISS, >> the Oh, yeah. ISS Oh, yeah. bar was 30 grams of protein. The Supreme bar was 30 grams of protein, but all of them were in that 350 plus on calories. So, to have such a lean, low calorie bar that's such a high ratio of protein is unfounded. So, I mean, shout out to them for sure, >> right? Fantastic analysis. >> And now on the flip side, and I guess I think Cameron asked this, like, what were some of the worst ratings you've given protein bars or the worst tasting ones? >> I the one that comes to my head right off the top of my head, RX bars. Have you guys ever had an RX bar? >> Mhm. >> Um, also, and I would say like an RX bar tastes like this if it was the exact opposite. So, it is very earthy texture. It is very like kind of like it tastes like a uh granola bar, but it tastes very bad. And um that was one of the early earliest uh reviews that we've done. And I just remember thinking, I cannot believe that people buy this. >> Like I want those calories back. >> They might they might have gotten better, you know, because I would imagine they had to. Here's also the thing about bars, too, though. Um, every time I try a bar, I'm looking at like when the expiration date is because typically bars are only going to stay in that like pristine, you know, early good taste if they have been within the last 6 months have been produced. >> Um, if they're like towards the end of their life cycle or towards the end of the expiration, >> right, you get a freshy, you know, >> but if they're towards like an expiration date within a couple of months, you just know it's going to taste way worse. It's the the flavor u profile, right? Like the the flavor additives to their base basically seem to separate over time >> into where it's like you're getting the flavor that they wanted you to taste, but unfortunately the the base of all where the protein is is overpowering the rest and now you're just like this is like two different experiences at the same time versus it being cohesive. My brother-in-law told me uh when we released that one, he said, "I've bought thousands of RX bars and I love them." So, I was like, "Really?" >> I was like, "Wow." Uh, you know, his name's Carl, and I was like, I I maybe I need maybe I need to give it a second try if you've had thousands of them. >> Let me give you one that was just genuinely terrible that I was excited about this. I'm looking up our old reviews right now. Um, Redefine. Shout out Redefine. I don't know I don't know you guys well, but the Skippy oatmeal protein pie and they actually like partnered with Skippy. >> They also did an oatmeal cream pie >> protein oatmeal cream pie or I'm sorry we had a moon moon pie. >> The chocolatecovered graham marshmallowen moon pies. Classic, you know, uh convenience store snack. >> Um but these were just so sad, you know. It was like the protein peanut butter that was in the the Skippy one was just like PB2. >> You know, you're eating powdered peanut butter. Um is what it tasted like. >> It was the driest uh snack of all time. >> Yeah. I mean, gosh, dude. >> Um >> it's one of those ones where a lot of them or we have a lot of bars that we taste that you're just like, I can't believe somebody sat in a room and was like, this is the one, you know, green light this. >> You know, you think there were some people out there that were putting a lot of money into this and they're like, guys, I think we've got it. There are >> they thought this was good. >> Across the country, there are limited amounts of people who specialize in manufacturing protein snacks in this way. >> And so I when I taste a bad one, I'm always like, you know, I always try and remember that it's similar to protein powders where, you know, you have these brands that are going to these manufacturers and they're saying, "We want a protein bar. We want this." And they're like, "Well, we have this, this, and this, and it's in this flavor, and you can choose which one you want to do." Mhm. >> And a lot of times because of money restrictions, they're like, "Uh, this one's the best." So, we're going to go with that. >> Um, so I always even though >> Sugar should have put some more in there. >> This is so bad. >> This is a DNB do not buy for me. >> Yeah, >> that is just a do not buy. >> Yeah. Well, that's great analysis. The listeners can let us know if they agree or do not agree with our analysis. David bars and grip bars as well. >> What's your What's your guys' opinion? >> Yeah. Uh, I mean, I'm not an expert with protein analysis. That was a fantastic breakdown. From a taste perspective, I too, uh, I've mentioned this in podcast before, but I had two to three David bars for about two months. So, I did get very sick of David bars. So, then I didn't eat any for several months, and I did my gut markers and looked at my inflammatory markers. They were off. So, that's a future episode. I'm going to recheck them, and hopefully they're not so off. But yeah, I would say when I first had a David Bar, you guys actually said, "Try the blueberry pie." Cuz I hadn't tried that and I was like, "It was okay." And I tried the blueberry pie and it was fantastic. Probably a nine. Today, I would say this is probably a six and a half. >> Right. It does go down fast. >> Yeah. Not ideal. Uh, and probably about the same for the Rocky Road, the chocolate peanut butter, peanut butter choco chunk. Uh, I agree. Probably an 8.5 or a nine. That was the best of the three. >> Yeah. Mhm. And we like to consider the macros, right? So, it's just uh when you're looking at what they're trying to do as far as like bars are put into different categories in my head. There's um your ones that are made for more flavor, right? They're going to be higher fat, higher carbohydrate, um usually lower protein um that are really aiming towards you enjoying the flavor. But if you're someone who's like really trying to stay on plan and and try to get as lean as you can or trying to get as, you know, high a protein with without any of the other macros taking up a lot of the calories, they're just hard to find. And so, not a lot of uh companies are trying to be pioneers in that way. So, I try to give a little bit of extra credit in my scores to ones that are trying with innovation. If there's really innovation built in, >> there was one we did earlier that had like a marshmallow fluff. Remember that one? >> Right. >> There was like the texture of it. They really nailed that marshmallowy texture. And I'm not huge on marshmallow stuff, >> but like if you would to compared it to this rocky road, which would insinuate there's supposed to be some marshmallow flavoring, which I did not get. >> Yep. >> Um then like it's unmistakable. So it's like there's been some innovation recently this whether it be protein cereal, the protein chips, uh the protein pretzels where the macros are pretty wonderful. Um >> yeah, it's got a pizza. Is it freeze-dried? >> Is it freeze-dried or does it give you the texture? Cuz like >> it tastes marshmallow. >> Well, I mean like if you're having like a you know a mini marshmallow out of like a hot cocoa packet >> doesn't taste good until it's actually like you know got some moisture in it. >> I need to bump my >> I'm more like a dried a freeze-dried looking marshmallow. So James, what did you think? >> Yeah, I kind of agree with the order that you guys put it in. Definitely the peanut butter chocolate chunk was my favorite. I would put the David bar about on par with that Rocky Road. Probably just because I didn't overdose on David Bars at any point, you know. I'll eat them infrequently, so it's still like tastes great every time to me. >> You thought But you thought the Rocky Road was good on the grip bar? >> I did. Yeah. Yeah. I'd say >> over the peanut butter Choco Chunk. >> Yeah. No, I'd say give the David bar and the Rocky Road about an eight and then give the Grip Bar I'd say close to a nine. It's probably one of the maybe the best protein bar I've ever had. >> Wow. It is pretty crazy how how snacks are from a macro standpoint getting pretty close to like a scoop of protein, which in my head the scoop of protein's always been uh so beneficial because you know essentially no fat, no carbs.
