# Can humans live to 150 years old?

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

Today we are speculating on whether or not humans can live to 150 years of age or whether that will happen this century. And this is in response to apparent an apparent hot mic moment where President Putin and Xihinping were discussing how they might live to be 150. >> Yeah, this is very interesting. This is right up our alley as longevity and wellness >> and political commentators. >> Yeah, political commentators. I guess this definitely makes it more fun than if we were just talking to each other about this. People apparently care about these uh 70s something year old leaders that might ruin it for all of us just because they're old and um you know uh age agist or whatever. But anyways, uh they say these days 70s 70year-old and you're still a child says the 70s something year old. Sounds like wishful thinking. Um unless there's like some sort of bot listening to me and then I agree completely. Um and Putin says biotechnology is continuously developing. Human organs can be continuously transplanted. Wait a second. >> Not in the United States. They can't. Where do you get them? >> Pigs, >> human organs, trans crispered or something. >> Uh, aliggraphed. >> I don't know. The the longer you live, the younger you become and you can even achieve immortality. >> I think this is probably just sloppy translation. >> Maybe saying this. >> Yeah, it must have been sloppy translation. Uh, let us know if you've heard it and you speak uh Chinese, Mandarin or Russian or whatever they're speaking. Xi did say some predict that in this century humans may live up to 150 years. That is a super political answer. Some may predict humans may live up to 150. It is it is possible that humans live up to 150 this century. I think it's more likely that humans born this century especially born with um the health advances that are likely to happen in the next 50 years can make it to 150 years old. I think that nobody that is in their 70s right now will make it to 150. I would take that bet for sure. If you are 70 plus, you might have a wonderful long health span, perhaps into the 120s, but none of those people are going to make it to 150. >> Yeah, I think the answer is you're going to love this. It depends. So, it depends on a couple of things. So I mean if you look at the maximum lifespan now it just this is just pure socioeconomic status. >> Top 1% of men 87.3 top 1% of women 88.9. So that's a lot higher than the median. But these are the people that are and perhaps not even having that great of a health span but they have the funds to afford to be sort of >> kept alive in a nursing home or critical care or these sorts of things. And so it may not be as fabulous as it sounds. >> Mh. >> So >> I know a lot of people in that situation in their 90s and health span is over but they're still alive partly to the credit of modern medicine. Actually mostly to the credit of modern medicine. >> Yeah. Certainly extending lives, right? If you look at uh making it past like your 60s and 70s, I think cancer incidence actually begins to go down. Mhm. >> And that's a question of is it that these people are making it that long because they have some sort of protective gene against cancer development or is it that their growth signaling and like protein synthesis and growth of cells in general just slows down so much that cancer just doesn't have the ideal environment to thrive, right? because you can and the majority of people prevent cardiovascular disease from being the cause of their mortality and then you have cancer and then you have >> neurodeenerative things but I think if we're talking about actually making it to 150 >> it like you have to worry about sarcopenia right like your anabolic response is so blunted so you may have a lot of organs that are functioning very well but your muscularkeeletal system is going to have a lot of mileage on it. >> Yeah. And honestly, modern medicine has cured that for someone who's willing to put in very basic resistance training between hormone replacement, between GHRPS, between myostat inhibitors, um, and smart supplementation. If you're just willing to do the bare bones basic, fairly consistent resistance training, I think that, uh, people can avoid sarcopenia through 150 years. And for those who don't know, sacropenia is just basically less muscle mass. So you're not able to get up from a chair, walk up a set of stairs, etc. >> Yeah. And staving off that and and also having good aerobic fitness, I think are important. The other thing I think of is infectious disease, right? Because your immune system becomes less good at fighting things off. So that's why, you know, almost nobody our age dies of a pneumonia. But if you are 70 or 80 or 90 then that's a very different calculation like your risk of getting pneumonia versus the risk of you and I getting pneumonia. >> So those >> that's why biohackers say just do peptides like TA1 and definitely not you know a prevar or something like that. >> Yeah it is interesting. I think it depends on where and how exponentially fast the technology moves right. So if you look at people saying oh well AI will solve this. I don't think anyone should bet on just living however they want to because AI is going to solve it and they're going to live to 150. And I think that's an unwise bet to take. And maybe I'm wrong. Maybe those people will laugh at me because they're eating Cheetos on the couch right now listening to this and they're like, "Uh, AI is going to save me." >> Here's what I do know. Even if it's theoretically possible for super intelligent AI along with, you know, a neural link implanted uh biohackers that have had a neural link and AI teaching them since they're a fetus in their artificial womb. Even if it is possible that they reverse aging, long before we truly reverse aging, um changing your biological age clock is not reversing aging. But long before that happens, we will prevent aging. prevent aging before you reverse aging. >> Yes. So long before people can go from being basically functionally and physically a 70-year-old to a 20-year-old, we are going to have 20-year-olds that just stay 20 years old for a very long for, you know, you could essentially be in your 20s functionally for over a hundred years. I could see that happening before you take a 90-year-old and take them back. is exponentially more difficult. >> But could you stabilize a 70-year-old or is there too much damage that's been done? >> You probably could. Probably just not >> continuously implant human organs. >> Would that be in your protocol? >> Yeah. Um I mean I I don't think that I would continuously implant organs that are not failing. I think that things like exosome treatments are very promising. Um, previously I said I'm um not I'm not very excited about stem cell treatments, but I have noticed that some stem cell treatments have gotten approval for even skin diseases like vitiligo or severe trauma and burns. So at least in terms of the integumentaryary system, they appear pretty good. So perhaps at some point that's also the case. But there's so many different approaches, it's hard to say this one is better than this one. Um I do think that um the primary means of stopping aging is going to be um good lifestyle interventions along with these other medical advancements. So let's say we do have these medical advancements 50 50 years from now when you and I are in our uh what 70s and 80s >> and um we want to take all of them. you're like, "All right, sign us up. Send me the Let's say it turns out to be um ozone therapy or something. That's the magical thing. It's not, but you know, this just so we can sign us up, but then if you still don't do good diet, good exercise, good sleep habits, and sleep hygiene on top of that, it's still um not going to work as well. So, we're kind of in the same problem we are now where we have much better medicines. Compare our um pharmarmacology right now to a 100 years ago. It is exponentially better and the other therapies are going to be exponentially better 50 years and 100 years from now. But uh people are living less and less and less healthy lifestyle right now. That's why life expectancy actually went down for the first time. >> Yeah. Do you think people would give up free will to live the healthy lifestyle? Right. But if you talk about the neural link implant and let's say it makes them live every day like Brian Johnson, right? And I I've given the example before of the free will like people don't want to stare at a boring computer screen at work all day. So they take Adderall to make themselves want to do that. >> Yeah. >> People don't want to avoid tasty high calorie foods but they take Ozic or similar drugs to make themselves do that. So, it's not >> David Bars. >> Not that far of a stretch to say someone gets a Neuralink and it's going to give them a perfect diet. They're going to exercise every day. >> There's a stressful situation. It's just going to walk them away. They're not walking away. It's walking them away because you can't have high stress levels. >> I mean, Tesla, please drive me home. I mean, Neurolink, please walk me home. >> I think people would give it up if they get some UBI with it. For those who don't know, uh, UBI is universal basic income, not to be confused with TBI, which is a traumatic brain injury, which you might get getting a link implant >> because the average person, um, you know, uh, Putin and Xi are probably not super well connected with the average person. For better or, for worse, I think you and I actually are connected pretty well with the average person. We're going through the, you know, the general things of life. We have both have infants. Um, neither one of us has like a an awe pair. Um, you know, we wake up at night, if our infant wakes up, that's not good for our sleep. Biohacker bros need to remind us that that our sleep is terrible. Um, you know, uh, we're still doing a lot of the, you know, we mow our own lawns and whatnot. So, there's a lot of things that, um, we do that a normal person does. And I still remember the things that I would be willing to do like uh chop firewood or you know have a lawn care business that is not particularly like it's not a lowrisk activity for your health. One of my friends uh lost fingers um doing that. So >> yeah, >> people are willing to do dangerous things that are bad for their health for a little bit more money. And I think that for the 99% of the population, that will always be the case. >> Do you think help society continue? >> Yeah, we need someone to do those jobs. And do you think that's why Xi Jinping and Putin's salaries are not particularly high because they're avoiding dangerous activities so that they can live longer? >> No, I think >> we can put up their salaries just for uh people's interest. >> Xinping is solidly upper middle class in China. He earns US dollar equivalent about 22,000 per year. Uh Putin is I suppose what you would call rich or wealthy. He makes about $140,000 per year, US dollar equivalent. >> Wow. >> So if you're looking purely at the socioeconomics, then Putin is probably going to live longer if you disregard every other piece of data. >> Mhm. Yeah, that's pretty surprising. Um, you know, I personally I think that these salaries might not be what they actually take home. >> Come on. I saw it on the total compensation package per year. >> Um, in fact, doesn't our doesn't the current president of the United States take zero presidential salary? >> Yeah, I for like zero 400,000 is the set salary, but I it's all donated to charity. >> I think it's all donated. >> Yeah. Um, anyways, the the point is that to some degree, if you have a actually to a great degree, if you have a higher salary, you're more likely to live longer because you're doing healthier things. You're not you're not having to trade your health for money as much. Yeah, I think that pretty much covers it. Um, let us know if you liked this commentary on what uh Xi and Putin were saying. If there's anybody else that is um, you know, famous that's talked about living indefinitely uh, other than uh, the Brian Johnson's, let us know and we'll comment on that as well. >> Yeah, I just want to know people's protocols for getting to 150. So, go ahead and leave those in the comments and I'll read through and see if there's any good ideas in there. Um, if not, I'll just downvote them. >> Sounds good. Well, as always, uh, thanks for listening and for your time. May God bless you with health and happiness.
