# Unknown

*Unknown*

## Transcript

[music] Welcome back. I saw that my friend Derek made a video about The Rock and his steroid allegations on his channel, More Plates, More Dates. And I was intrigued that Derek said that the AI scan, which is not an AI scan, it's a CT scan with dye. They put iodine contrast die. It goes through your coronaries, which is the arteries in your heart, and it sees if they're blocked or not blocked. It can detect soft plaque. calcified plaque. But basically Derek uh who I have learned a lot from over the years and who probably misspeaks less than I do said that uh the CT scan that the Rock got was probably not affordable for the average person. And very recently, there was a cash pay price in Kansas City of less than $400 for this scan. And then um probably 600 extra 700 extra for the AI um portion read of that scan if it's necessary, which often it's not necessary. But back to things that you might find more interesting. Um the rock also noted that he had very low HDL, which of course is a very common sign of steroid use. And this is our first time seeing this video. So, I guess we're gonna see what The Rock says and what Dererick says about that. >> Yeah, I I want to make a prediction. The Rock is probably going to say that he's natural or um avoid the question. I I don't think he's ever come out and said that he's taken anything. He's sort of either said no or played silent, right? he, you know, everyone sort of knows it's extraordinarily unlikely. >> Like, but if you've played this character and denied things for so long, it's it's hard to weave your way back to, okay, I'm on TRT, but I'm not getting bigger. >> So, it'll be interesting to watch and see, especially because Dererick did a video on it and he has a an entertaining way of putting things together. And then it came back and you know it was almost like you know when you hear a song for the first time and you're like holy [ __ ] I love that song that song sounds great. So I remember when you told me you said hey look uh here's the report from our cardi our head cardiologist who's a very good friend of yours and you said um that he said >> looks great. It is just an anatomical thing that's happening back there. It's not buildup at all. His valves look great. >> Come back in three years. And >> so when you get a scan like this, there's two main ones clearly and heart flow and they both have plaque analysis. You shouldn't just tell the patient this looks great. You should give the patient the report or be looking at it together ideally and say this is your total atheroma volume. This is how much is soft. This much is how much of is low density which might be less stable. This is the location. And there is reasons why this AI report believe it or not are not accurate. Yeah. And to piggy back a little bit on the affordability side of it, the the way I think of it is, you know, even if you don't run a secondary AI analysis for probably >> what 80% of people, the CCTA itself is going to tell them everything they need to know as far as management and next steps. >> You can always get the additional analysis even if you have a CAD red zero. You know, nobody's going to stop you from that. But these may cost 700 if you're on the coasts or New York. And if you split that up over like three years because I I don't see why you would do it more often than that. >> It's less than 20 bucks a month. So the affordability for the average person I think is a matter of priorities. Um and again he's the rock isn't a health care provider or um like a biohacker who sort of is fixated on some of the stuff around heart disease. So his his terminology is is not correct. I don't think they're trying to find valves in his circumlex artery. >> No. >> But um you know there may be more to that and maybe he did have a totally clean and clear like clearly CCTA. >> It's possible. >> Um but again it's unlikely any male in his 50s. It's not surprised to see a little bit of black that's there. >> Yeah. One other note, CT scans of course do have radiation. Modern CCTAs, especially with good protocols on good machines, are between two and five millisverts for an averagesized person. A calcium score for reference is about one milliservert. And the iodine that they use is not radioactive. These are all myths that I have heard propagated often on social media. >> And what was amazing was, you know, your your cholesterol was actually um pretty good. I mean, you had you had low HDL genetically, which is the quote good cholesterol. It's a little oversimplification, but you know, we we did a deeper panel of your cardiovascular risk factors and we looked at things like APOB, which is now being declared as this sort of the best biomarker for your heart, which again, most doctors don't do that. >> They don't do that. >> Most doctors don't do that. Didn't we just write a uh article in the clinical literature, a journal of American uh American Journal of Preventive Cardiology? We talked a lot about APOB and many other risk enhancing factors. That being said, you have to address the elephant in the room, the steroid use, which is certainly a risk-enhancing factor regardless of your APOB, which is of course is APOB and LDL are very closely correlated. So, it's weird that they're talking here and they say APOB is something that almost nobody checks, but if your LDL is 25, what is your APO going to be? >> Yeah, it's also going to be low. It's it's interesting with the steroids. I mean where where do you draw the line between healthy TRT and then what is considered steroids? I mean you can pick different drugs, different medications and how much of that risk do you think is the compound and the dose itself versus the amount of size that someone gets? So let's say the rock got his physique on 500 megs of test per week versus the rock got his physique on five grams of anabolics per week. >> Right? Obviously, one is more inherently risky, but there's still some risk to being that size. >> Yeah. As far as a electrical cardiovascular risk, I would say they're relatively equally weighted. as far as uh eskeemic and congestive heart disease risk. So you think about uh basically plumbing or structural then I would say that the overall size of the individual is probably a larger driver of um like structural disease, congestive heart disease. Um obviously you can get doses really high and have all the above happen but um in terms of other organ systems I think that the dose specifically is a higher risk. So certainly if you're talking about prostate cancer an extremely high dose of TRT plus or steroid cycle is going to grow that much faster regardless of the size of the individual. And this is different for every organ system liver kidney etc. >> That was super low. interesting that I just noticed. He says your HDL was genetically low. It's like, how did you deter determine that? Like the guy obviously came to you relatively recently and has been on hormones probably for years. Like he has low HDL because it's like the number one thing that happens when you take gear that's reflected in biomarkers with exception of like the crushing of gonadotropins. You will have suppressed HDL. So I thought that was an interesting like caveat. He's like, "It's genetic, not just you have low HDL." He probably knows that the androgenius will have that on your >> I guess the head cardiologist forgot to listen to the more place more dates video before they did the consult. >> Skip the recommended reading. >> Yeah, >> cop out there. But regardless, interesting. So, it's not always going to be something that is uh incredibly like he basically got a second opinion. This guy like totally disagrees with the first guy. It's highly likely that you could have had a third guy come in and say, you know, the first guy was probably right for all we know. Interestingly though, to me more so than the the HDL thing is the fact that he is speaking about this anatomical unique like structural abnormality that is not that's getting confused for plaque accumulation. If this was something you had done before, like presumably this is something that would have been noticed because it wouldn't have been changing. If it was an anatomical like very uh unique structural thing inherent to your your body, this would have been picked up before if he had ever had preventative. Excellent point. So if you had a RA uh sorry RI ramis intermedi or myioardial bridge or uh other anatomic variants of the heart a strange bifurcation whatever the case may be this would be well known and you'd be on the lookout for whatever might be downstream to that and anecdotally it does seem like many of these variants do accumulate plaque much more often. So is it really that there's no plaque or is it because that there's some sort of variant and because of that the flow is different and the atherosclerosis in that uh variant artery is different. >> Yeah. I don't know. And we haven't watched the entire video >> so I don't know if the rock study had a scan like this done in the past or if that's implied here that someone who's proactive with their health probably has. >> Good friend of ours Dr. Samanta, the structural cardiologist. Um, we'll have to have him on the podcast in the future to discuss some of these niche things for people who might be interested and just explain uh cardiac imaging or advanced preventive cardiac imaging more specifically more in the future because this is kind of a recurring theme. Every time we do a video on it, there's people commenting CCTA bad radiation or why don't you do myioardial profusion imaging or why not a functional MRI of the heart. So um and we're very grateful to Dr. Meerson and our other co-authors of our lipid paper. So I feel like we've kind of squashed a lot of that. She's a lipidologist that we wrote with. So we will continue to have expert opinions on here. And uh instead of just complaining and being sarcastic on this, obviously this is this whole thing has been very sarcastic. Um but we're not just being mean to people. We're pointing out where uh very popular people like The Rock may have a gap in their medical knowledge. He's not a medical expert. And we're literally just trying to help people by showing how you can go get this scan that The Rock did for less than $500 in most areas. And how you can actually approach it without the extra fear and myths that you're hearing in um places probably not more plates more dates, but you're hearing them in in other places on social media. >> Well, and even letting people know that it's more accessible than they might think if they hear people say, "Oh, it's expensive. It's expensive. It's expensive." He's suggesting that he's never had pro like screening done despite the fact that he is the highest paid athlete uh not athlete uh actor on the planet. I believe a guy who is one of the highest paid and one of the most who needs to rely on being like a big jacked probably on hormones guy to be that most paid actor. And yet at his in his 50s he had not even had the screening done. Like it just goes to show like a lot of people are always like, "Oh, you have, you know, these people have the best trainers and they have the best this and they have the best that and they have the best access to this and that." It's like often times despite the fact that they have all this money and all these resources, they like there's no one in their camp that's like actually properly advising how to be thorough and diligent and then this is a great point and frankly many people like The Rock or people in his situation they would be better off going to Merrick Derek's clinic where both of us previously worked and helped develop a lot of the treatment algorithms. I don't believe they do CCTAs there. But they do a great job. Derek is obviously very preventive health focused and u we're obviously very preventive health focused as well. But he's absolutely right. Um people that you know you you would think would be very famous or have a lot of resources. Um, it's hard for someone that's not in health care to discern a high quality care versus um, you know, gimmicks and things that are interesting. Just like if I go to a car shop, it's hard for me to tell like what what makes a good mechanic. I'm I'm not really sure. I don't know know a ton about cars. >> Yeah. And you and I have both seen I'll just say patients that are in the Hollywood or LA area and have a lot of resources come over on protocols that you know quite frankly don't make a lot of sense and I have to you know ask them you know and what was the purpose of this you know say random slew of peptides and >> and they don't know so it doesn't sound like there's a lot of true informed consent that's being gotten like hey this is the goal of this treatment and these are the potential downsides you know it seems like It's just sort of whatever is popular in a way for you know certain peptide doctors to make money >> is what is the flavor of the week. So um yeah, I think with personal wellness becoming more and more popular that people will look into, you know, concierge medicine or even some platforms like Merrick that offer, you know, connection from consumers to physicians or healthcare providers that, you know, are the cut above the rest where they know more than just your GP and know more than the uh peptide only doctor, let's say. >> Yeah. At the end of the day, medicine is both a good and a service. And it's important for the consumer to know, is this more of a good, for example, am I just getting a hair loss or sexual health med or GLP1 or whatever else here, or is it more of a service that's actually looking out for your health in a way that it is not incentivized to recommend something that's not a huge money maker or gimmick? So people will come here and uh it's kind of like having a a coach or someone who's truly on your team with some sort of um intrinsic or exttrinsic motivation to have you be as healthy as possible. And if you're interested in a peptide, you should be able to ask your doctor or nurse practitioner, what are the upsides and downsides of this? And it's perfectly fine to say, I'm super interested in taking this. I heard or I know someone who took it and they felt fantastic. They started to beat my 5K time or my uh they've beat my deadlift PR. So, I'm just super interested in doing this. I want to be I want to be strong and fast and happy and what are the downsides of doing this? So, I I think it's fantastic when patients come in and ask us that. Sometimes people are apologetic when they say that. they they preface it and they say, "Well, don't judge me for this." Or, "Um, I know I probably shouldn't ask, but I'm curious about a GLP-1 because of this." Or, um, I know my testosterone's technically normal, or my free testosterone is technically normal, or whatever the case may be, but I'm curious about this hormonal intervention. Um it's always perfectly fine to ask even if you ask about uh PP 405 which is in phase 2 clinical trials for hair. This is very random but um it's fine to ask about anything. Um but you should ask what is the what is the motivation of the person that's advising me and do they actually like um are they an unbiased reporter? >> Yeah. Which is going to be difficult if you're in like the rocks position, right? where, you know, he could reach out and any physician is going to be probably any physician is going to be happy to work with him and if they happen to own a lot of health-based companies and a media company and can use that for their financial gain, it's hard to know if even that person would be unbiased. >> Yeah, definitely not. Anyways, let's watch a little bit more of what Dererick has to say and then wrap up. >> We know they should be checking this stuff until they're, you know, like quote unquote old enough or whatever. Like the guy has been exposing himself to huge risks, fluctuating body weights, using significant amounts of hormones, probably eating 6,000 to 8,000 calories a day supposedly, which is absolutely not, you know, going to be healthy for you ultimately. The fact that he had not actually done any sort of like imaging until that point is pretty [ __ ] wild to me. Like there are guys now who are educated and being as careful as possible getting imaging done as early as like their 20s to make sure that they have don't have any predispositions or problems before they actually go down. >> Yeah, it's a great point. It's never too early. Uh but the earlier it is, the more downside there is. So I actually haven't gotten my first CCTA, what the Rock is talking about, and I do plan to do so soon since I am now closer to 40 than 30. Oh, I thought you were going to say you're going to do it when you hit 260 like The Rock since you guys are the same height. >> Yeah, when I get to the same uh weight as The Rock and Bradley Martin. Um I'll do one. No, but in all seriousness, I I am going to do that at some point. I have not done a karate ultrasound. But Derek's right. Um in general, uh a rule of thumb is the less healthy you are, the more risk factors you have, the earlier you should do it. I am tall, much taller than the average person and um I also don't have insulin resistance and I don't think I ever have been insulin resistant. Uh I don't think I've ever had significantly elevated inflammatory markers either. But um you know I am a male so at some point I think it makes sense uh in your late 30s or 40s for every male to consider should I get a scan of my kurateed to look for plaque? Should I get a scan of my heart to look for plaque? If not earlier, like Derek mentioned, anybody who's a bodybuilder or anybody who is enhanced should be thinking about these things in their 20s. >> Yeah. Depends on your family history, too. Or if you've been diagnosed with FH, there's a lot of reasons you might push that a bit earlier. >> Yeah. Well, I think that covers it. Hopefully, this give gave people some good information about what they should do about their heart health and whatnot. I guess we didn't really talk about this podcast. >> I thought it was a steroid podcast, too. Don't do steroids, kids. That's the point of the podcast. But if you do, then um just like if you smoke tobacco, you know, if you drink too much alcohol, then talk to your doctor about it and say, "Hey, when I was in my 20s, I smoked a lot of tobacco and drank a bunch of alcohol and did a bunch of anabolic steroids. What do I need to do to assess for these risk factors?" an adept physician would say, "Oh, well, you've had 37 pack years of smoking and we're going to go ahead and do uh like, you know, if the appropriate age, then we'll screen for lung cancer. Maybe we'll screen for other cancers, too. Maybe they'll be doing graery tests. Um, you know, maybe they'll be more aggressive screening for cervical cancer if it's female." That's just one example. Uh, it's the same thing for anabolic steroids. So tell your doctor and if they're going to judge you and say, "Well, you should have done them and not help you otherwise," then go find a new doctor. [snorts] >> Yeah. You have to find someone that you can build a good rapport with and trust. And like you said, people would say like, "Don't judge me for this." But that's sort of the foundation of the doctor patient or nurse patient relationship is it's non-judgmental by definition or at least it should be. So, uh, hopefully we've given people some things to think about. Hopefully this isn't a uh click and bait and switch situation. Um, but as always, thank you for your time and thank you for listening if you made it this far. May God bless you with health and happiness.
