# The Low Testosterone Crisis

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

We need to discuss the low testosterone crisis in men. >> It's fair to say that testosterone levels in men are lower than they ever have been. >> Yeah, there's a few things that you can do to help this, but the question is how low are they really? They used to be much higher. What helps increase them? What is decreasing them? We've talked about some of these topics before. Obesity, sleep apnea potentially making things worse, alcohol use making things worse, tobacco use, what is that doing? >> Yeah, smokers actually tend to have a little bit higher, sometimes quite a bit higher testosterone levels than their non-smoking counterparts. So, this is surprising to a lot of people, but it's one of the things that can explain the drop in testosterone. But if you go back and look at some of the claims that are made, they'll usually they pick a number like the 1970s, right? They'll say this was the decade that it all started because a lot of things changed then. Average testosterone, I saw that it's even higher before the 1970s. I did see that several people posted an average of 500 to six or sorry, an average of 800 900 in the 1970s. And then low testosterone, you were clinically deficient when it was 550. >> Yeah, it's hard to say because I don't know that testosterone was being widely prescribed a deficiency being screened for in the 1970s. And I don't I'm actually not aware of any like population studies that looked at, you know, sure they look at some total testosterones, but you don't have the sex hormone binding globulin. And if you look at the average BMI of individuals in the 1970s, substantially lower than even, you know, several decades later, certainly lower than today. >> So high SHBG, high testosterone. >> Yeah. So the the relative change in free testosterone is not quite as scary or sensationalized, but even free testosterone levels are, I mean, I would say clinically significantly lower today than they were in the 1970s. I think that's fair. Yeah, testosterone definitely is decreasing, but when I see influencers post things about testosterone levels in Neanderthalss, we really don't know. I think I saw one influencer say average testosterone for a Neanderthal was over 2,000 nanogs per deciliter. I'll try to find this and screenshot it and blur out whatever names if there's any embarrassment. But there is a real crisis about low testosterone. And there's a few sources that we'd like to share rather than just posting something, you know, a quick little be easier to just post a quick little tweet about testosterone levels. Used to be clinically deficient when it was 600 and now it's lower than ever. Um, but one of the most interesting ones is tobacco because you would think smoking and alcohol bad. That should make testosterone lower. So, I've actually recently picked up cigar smoking partly so my voice just catches up in raspiness and deepness to yours and Cash Patel who also said his voice got better after smoking cigars. >> Other people who like myself and the Liver King changed their voice for social media purposes. >> Yeah, that is very interesting. Uh if people haven't seen Liver King real voice, just type that into YouTube and prepare to be shocked. But this is actually let's go back to the 1980s before we go into the 1990s. So it's the same graph but this is a bit prior. So if you look at these changes actually are a bit smaller. So you had a more homogeneous population in the late 80s and early 90s. You know if you look at you know the very bottom rung. So these are the never smokers who weren't necessarily healthy. you know, they would still have a testosterone above 500 at age 30. You know, probably at or close to 500 at age 40. Um, certainly that's different than today, but if you look at the lean men who were more likely smokers, not 100% of them, but who had smoked in the past, they had about is that about 100 nanogram per deciliter? I suppose that's supposed to be per deciliter. It says nanogram per mill there. Yeah, nanogram per mill. Seven nanograms per mill would be 700 nanogs per deciliter I believe. >> Yeah. >> So average 700 is pretty good. >> Yeah. And that's average. So that is surprisingly high. Of course, if you see it uh you know that benefit kind of tapers off for healthy and unhealthy individuals if they go to 60 70 80 and certainly if you look at the um you know the with coorbidities then uh there is an effect there too but this changes a decent amount when you look at the updated data. >> Yeah. And it looks like when you get into between 50 and 60 you know most of those lines are converging. you're seeing like things are pretty similar. Most guys have experienced most of their decline at that point. >> And this is why I'll frequently say, you know, it makes sense for virtually every man to consider testosterone replacement at some point. Whether that's, you know, they're a rare case at, you know, 20, 30, 40 that needs testosterone. >> Um, not necessarily needs for compatibility with life, but for quality of life. or some men maintain great production into their, you know, 60s, 70s, and 80s. >> Yeah. And to be fair, considering testosterone therapy could be as simple as getting a testosterone level once every 5 years or even better, once every single year to remove the outliers between age 20 and age 85. Something that people can do without even seeing a doctor on sage bio.com. >> Yeah, it's a great plug for Sage Bio. very cool company. And let's go back to the next decade and just kind of see what changes there. So, switch back again and back. So, did testosterone levels actually get a little bit higher for men under the age of 50? They peak talking about lean men without coorbidities. >> Looks like I mean maybe 20 30 nanogram per deciliter higher. >> Yeah. And certainly the never smoking lean men without coorbidities were a little bit higher a little bit higher area under the curve exposure would look like. >> All men is definitely not as high as lean men. That's true. The lean men who may have smoked may have not smoked. It's more of a difference in middle age than uh you know 20 or 80. It's right at the same spot at 20 and 80. But apparently, if you have never smoked in your life, then that is putting you at risk of low testosterone or at least lower than it would be, especially if you have some coorbidities in your 30s, 40s, and 50s. But that being said, again, look at the units. Nanograms per milliliter. So if you're looking at nanograms per deciliter, uh even if you have the lowest testosterone of these groups at age 30, the average is still almost 600. >> Yeah. And something this makes me think of is endocrinologists. And if you ask them what are the differences in these groups based on their lifestyle patterns, they would say none. All these lines are exactly the same because they're all within the normal range. >> Yeah. Endocrinologists have been known to say things like that, like it doesn't matter if you're at 800 or 301, normal is normal, and it doesn't matter unless you dip below the reference range >> or unless your um reference range has changed. >> Yeah, that's fair. >> That being said, you know, these are obviously averages, so you'll have outliers. And one thing that is true is testosterone level, especially naturally produced testosterone, does not matter near as much as people think it matters within the reference range. So you'll see some of the most athletic specimens with very low body fats and a lot of muscle mass with a total testosterone 300s, 400s, and vice versa. You'll see skinny fat individuals with zero athleticism and they'll have a total testosterone in the 900s. >> Yeah, it's I mean your body composition and athletic ability are overwhelmingly genetic plus training, you know, that matters and people are going to have to train if they want to perform well at something or have a impressive physique or something of that nature. >> What if someone doesn't want an impressive physique? They just want to excuse that they don't have athleticism or a great body composition, but not genetics and not their training because they're training hard. >> Are they? What's their CK? >> Let's Is there act is there actually good excuses >> besides genetics? >> Yeah. Don't check their CK and their BUN. Their Bun might be six. They're not eating any protein and their CK is 34. >> So, they're also not training hard. doing the elliptical, which is actually easier than walking. >> Yeah. Sarcasm button multiple times and and it's not great for your knees either. But yeah, to try to give people actionable steps because they want us to tone down the sarcasm other than the little fun parts. Is there actually good excuses? Let's say somebody is con really truly consuming a ton of protein and really training hard um other than clinically deficient testosterone. Actually, let's put that on number one list. clinically deficient testosterone. They have a pituitary adnoma and their total testosterone is 20. I've seen it before even five years ago. I was talking about these rare cases with Derek. More place more dates Derek. So that's got to be number one on the list. What are the other real actual excuses? >> Yeah, I mean if people have malabsorption issues, you know, that's something that comes to mind. >> Celiac for sure. >> Yeah, celiac. or you know if they're chronically iron deficient, B vitamin deficient, >> Crohn's, >> you know, if they have fat malabsorption, that's going to be a lot of calories that they're not taking in. You know, maybe a pancreatic exacrine insufficiency. There's a lot of these different things that can happen. So, you think of the GI tract and gut health, chronic inflammatory conditions, chronic kidney disease, HIV, AIDS, it's going to cause muscle wasting. So, those are all things people could have and that's why they're, you know, potentially not making gains, but the odds of having something like that are low, but not zero. So, >> So, you're saying there's a chance? >> There's a chance. >> Yeah. Just add all those to my next lab panel, please. >> So, you're you're at the gym talking with your buddy and he's like, "Oh, I thought you were you're bulking. It doesn't look like you've put on any size." So, just pull out one of those excuses. Be like, "Oh, uh, it's the HIV." Or, "Oh, it's my kidneys." The doctor said it might be my kidneys. Have you had it checked? No, it I haven't had it checked, but I heard on podcast it might be. >> What if you were a premature baby? >> I don't know the data there, honestly. >> SGA or IUGR. >> I know the first three years of life, like you know, protein intake, nutrient intake, calorie intake. That's a big predictor of like your final stature. >> But I don't know if there's like a catch-up period. You like if a kid is growth restricted from their stimulant medication, they stop it. There's usually a catch-up period, >> later puberty. >> Yeah. I don't know if that happens with a uh SGA infant. >> What about your mom fed you soy when you were a teenager? >> Probably no effect. >> Yeah. Other than maybe some kind of kamastia. >> Depends on how many quarts of soy milk she fed you. >> Three quarts per day. >> Yeah, kind of kamastia. >> Yeah. Anyways, hopefully people like that little rabbit trail. We can uh keep going here. So this is a newer data set. This is the I believe 2011 to 2016 inhanes data. Uh and these are the mean morning testosterone levels. So you know we don't have a free testosterone here. And this is the most recent publicly available data set. More on that later. >> What is inhanes? Is that just like within the Hannes family? Cam Hannes, Truit Hannes, what their testosterones are. >> I assume so. That's the only Hannes that I know about. >> Yeah. So, it's a it's a public database of testosterone levels. And yes, this is the most recent one that the government is willing to divulge to the public because the most recent data apparently has something in it just like UAP data that the government is not able to disclose >> because of reasons. I think that's what it says. I think it it literally says we can't disclose this because of reasons. Yeah, >> we'll we'll pull up that slide in a moment, but you can kind of see here where you might stack up against the average um or I should say above average because these are generally healthy males without coorbidities. And if you're looking at, you know, the mean and the 50th percentile, I mean, they're they're generally pretty close. So that would be your average. And then if you are, you know, 90th percentile, you're you're probably going to be above 600 650 regardless of your age. if you're in that top 10th percentile, which would be unusual, but not unusual in, you know, some of the very healthy and healthconscious patients that we take care of. >> Of note, if you look at that 10th percentile, that's more or less where all age groups would be deficient. So about one in 10 males is clinically deficient. That seems like a pretty reasonable spot to put the cuto off. However, um the argument is, well, what if you're looking at this data from the 70s, which is kind of hard to get a hold of, where would that 10th percentile be at that point? >> Yeah. Yeah. And someone should do a comparison on like the 10th percentile, even the 25th percentile, right? You know, somebody who's below 400 in every case and below 300 in a lot of cases, you know, they're going to be below that 25th, but not necessarily below the 10th percentile. >> Yeah. All right, here's another data set. I think this is comparing um inhanes to inhanes cohort. So this is from going back to the late 90s all the way to this more recent decade. And what's interesting here is certainly these more recent numbers are lower, but there's actually a slight uptrend if you look at that 2011 to 2016 data set. see that like you know each set of bars in this bar graph is a little bit higher in terms of the total testosterone. Now it's tiny. It hasn't reversed the deficit but it is there. >> Maybe the reason they won't release the 2020 to 2024 data. >> It's too good. >> It's too good >> levels are too high >> causing red shift in Gen Z. We need to increase microplastics and uh phytoestrogens in the water supply in order to bring that back down. >> Yeah, pretty interesting. >> What do we have next? Do we have the uh conspiracy slide somewhere? >> Our media guy, I guess, is owned by big government trying to suppress the uh >> Yeah. Yeah, there it is. Click it. Yeah, >> let's see. So, it says >> maximize it >> due to disclosure issues. So, issues, not reasons. I was mistaken. >> This data set is not available publicly. They're going to release it in like 40 years and then all the levels are going to be redacted. >> It'll be declassified, but you won't be able to see any of the levels. >> Yeah. If anybody listening knows a contact at the NCHS research data center, we are happy to apply to view this data as experts. Maybe we'll have Dr. Fantis do this since he helps write some of the guidelines from some some of the proposals as a wellrespected urologist. Um, so yeah, if anybody knows how to get a hold of this data, we'd love to review it because I I don't I can't think of a reason why they would want to disclose it other than it looks too good or it looks so bad that they're scared to release it. >> They're like, "Oh, the TRT clinics were right." Or they're like, "Oh, there's not a testosterone crisis." It wouldn't just be the same normal like continued little trickle down in testosterone. Uh, but anyway, it'll be interesting to see because eventually it will be available. You said something about testosterone this morning. You're talking about fasted testosterone, getting your two readings, getting it early in the morning, >> and you made the statement that getting your testosterone tested in the fasted state might be a myth. Mhm. So you know your classical endocrinologist will recommend two morning fasted testosterone levels. I believe the AUA recommends the same thing which is urologist. I believe the AFP recommends the same thing which is the family practice docs. Not all of them. That's just the main society that you pay a a large fee to in order to remain in good standing. Seems reasonable. Um, but the ABFM is actual board certification. So, I actually let my AFP membership lapse, I believe, because I just didn't need it for CME purposes. Anyways, they are not telling the truth. A more accurate statement would be labs in where you're evaluating testosterone should be morning and fasted. However, the testosterone does not depend on fasted state significantly. Lots of other things that are very important in the interpretation of a testosterone level absolutely depend on fasted state. Your your insulin level um if you don't get a fasted lab, how are you going to know if insulin resistance is going to be driving your testosterone up or down or your SHPG? Cortisol certainly depends on fasted state as well. Glucose depends on fasted state. So I think it would be accurate to say you should get morning fasted labs in order to evaluate testosterone. But a single testosterone level itself does not significantly depend on fasted state. Time of day is significantly more important and things like how well you slept the night before. >> Yeah, I think your point about the insulin that's probably the most striking example, right? um you don't have like a four or potentially five-fold difference in your testosterone depending on whether you've eaten or not. Whereas people certainly can have that depending on how many carbohydrates are in a meal and how high their insulin will go, especially if they have a very low basil insulin. You could see some really drastic shifts there. I would push back though and say that the average American's breakfast, which is usually, you know, a bowl of cereal and a 2 liter of soda, that's actually going to lower your testosterone. And I can't give a straight face. It's going to lower your testosterone 20 to 25%. So that could be the tipping point between a normal level and an abnormal level. Now, in reality, it's not a huge flux. to your point, >> but that's what most people >> um but if you're eating a high sugar or sugar sweetened beverages, um those are actually going to decrease testosterone quite a bit acutely. >> That's why I balance it out with a cigarette. I think that sums it up. So, uh in summary, uh stop drinking sugar sweetened beverages and start smoking cigarettes. sarcasm button. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. But in all seriousness, um there is a crisis of testosterone lowering and there's many reasons for it, but it is not as bad as people make it seem even between, you know, 1970s and today. We'll post a few more study links that aren't necessarily on Americans, but can be helpful in interpreting what have happened, what has happened with testosterone levels in the recent future, as well as we could know. We mention common confounding variables like SHBG again because it's just going to be higher in the 60s when people are leaner than now. So free androgen index is not going to change a ton. And don't use a lower testosterone level for an excuse of why your dad is more muscular and leaner than you. Um you know younger age and good training 99% of the time can make up for that. Um, so yeah, uh, post in your comments why you think testosterone is lowering. Is it, uh, you know, toxins that are being pushed into our environment by an adversary? Is it that people aren't drinking raw milk enough? Is it we're not getting enough sunlight? Is it that almost everyone is vitamin D insufficient? Maybe a little bit. Yeah, I I think personally the fertility crisis teaser for a future podcast there is more concerning than the testosterone crisis. So stay tuned for a discussion of that. We'll have at some point in post. But yeah, let us know what you think. Um why is your testosterone low? Why was your testosterone found to be low? How did you fix it? Um and let us know what you thought of this conversation. And it's important to realize it's not just an American phenomenon. uh it's seen in European countries as well. Uh even though they have banned some of the things that are in our food supply, there's still this decline in testosterone phenomenon happening. >> As always, uh thank you for your time and thank you for listening. May God bless you with health and happiness.
