# Bigorexia: Mental Disorder or Elite Mindset?

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

Welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast. Today we are discussing bigorexia and the sneaky signs of bigorexia. Uh bigorexia is an eating and exercising and body image disorder. Um eating disorders can be serious. So I suppose a disclaimer about anorexia universa at the beginning is important which uh can be life-threatening and definitely requires medical attention and often prolonged medical care and therapy. Um so we don't want to be dismissive of that. But we will poke some fun at this article talking about the dangers of diet and exercise in a world where a lot of people need diet and exercise. I thought this was a serious podcast because it was from Huffington Post, my favorite internet scientific >> is what medical journal is that? >> Yeah, it says bigexia is on the rise. Here's what parents should know. And as a parent of three children, I've actually seen my two children, especially my two boys, my female child doesn't really talk a lot outside of saying dad and yum. But in all seriousness, bigexia can affect many people. And like anorexia and bulimia, it is something that you see happen a lot. This article was very cringe. So, we will poke some phone at fun at it. Fair warning. But even Thor has big ereexia. Maybe we can actually >> mine are cured. You know, [laughter] >> I think I have big. >> Yeah, >> if you had bigaxia, the rest of us would be really >> He was serious when he said this. Pretty sure he was serious. When he goes from 450 lbs of muscle to only around 400 lb of muscle, he just feels tiny. So, if Thor has bigexia, doesn't that mean all of us have bigexia? Well, I suppose he needs to just stop hanging out with that one guy that's taller than him that's also big. I forget his name. We can put his Instagram handle up there. >> The Dutch giant. I don't know his name, but the Dutch giant. >> That's the source of Thor's bigia right there. >> Yeah, perhaps. So um anyways uh the definition here from a certified eating disorder therapist is bigorexia is a psychological condition and type of body dysmorphic disorder which involves a distorted self-image. Correct. And focuses specifically on muscle size and physical appearance. So what boy or man would not like to have slightly bigger muscles? But what was very sneaky of them to do was to include the second half of the definition at the bottom of the article, >> which is worsens their quality of life and impairs their social, school, or daily functioning. >> Yeah. >> Right. You get that much much further down. [clears throat] >> Um, so yeah, the first part of the definition makes it sound like we're pathizing like every teenage boy almost or a young man that's trying to improve themselves. they should try to get stronger and grow into their adult body, which means gaining muscle and eating lots of protein. Certainly, when they said 22% of boys think about these certain eating habits in order to get bigger, uh my thought is get those numbers up. Those are rookie numbers. >> Put the me here. >> Pump those numbers up. Those are rookie track. >> Yeah. [snorts] So, um, they talk about what's fueling biggeria, but this isn't actually new. Part of it is inflation. So, people talk about gym inflation, which is basically people are lifting bigger numbers than ever. Powerlifters are lifting crazy amounts of weight. Even CrossFitters are lifting slightly more weight. Not bench, though. >> That's what I was going to say. >> Just [laughter] Just snatch and clean and jerk. Shout out to my friend Jack Farllo for I think winning the clean and jerk at the CrossFit games and winning or getting one of the top two or three positions in the snatch at the World Fitness Project. Uh insane numbers and some of them are um almost on par with actual Olympic lifting athletes, but they talk about how trauma and bullying are factors for bigexia. Uh, I don't really remember significant trauma or bullying, but I do remember being called skinny. In fact, >> are you implying that you have bigexia? >> I think everybody has a degree of bigexia. It's on a continuum or a spectrum. So, pathology is people that have it the worst and it can be debilitating. But nobody has 0% bigorexia. My wife Maddie says I have reverse bigarexia. That I think I'm bigger than I actually am, which maybe would give some people bigexia, but right now I don't. But >> it's just because you installed a funhouse mirror in your bathroom. >> I did not. >> The same one you take selfies in. [laughter] >> Yeah, I wish. I'm actually not allowed to post mirror selfies. Funny uh information for loyal podcast listeners, but Mattie does not like it when I post golden nugget of Dr. Gillette's life there. Yeah. Um, but you know, it talks about self-esteem and they can be more vulnerable especially, you know, I think that this is the biggest issue in teenagers and they do rightfully point out that many people want to take steroids or SARMs or whatever else just to be bigger. So, the point of being bigger is so that you can actually be healthier, not less healthy. So, as long as it's a net positive for your health, you want any intervention, whether it's a supplement that you're taking, protein, creatine, etc., You want it to be a net positive. Now, sometimes it's frustrating because I remember being a young man and not wanting to take creatine because I thought maybe it was steroids, but I was extremely skinny to the point where it was detrimental for my sexual marketplace value. Throw that term out there and not define it. [snorts] But, uh, I was, you know, I was very hesitant to take creatine. In fact, even when I was medical director at MER, I had still only taken creatine and protein. And I've talked about everything else on other podcasts that's kind of like outside of the scope of this podcast. But um those things are likely a net positive on almost everyone's health that is an adolescent male. Yet a lot of parents see their adolescent male taking those things and they're concerned does my child have bigexia? Are they hurting their kidneys? Etc. >> Yeah. And I think that's what this article is trying to capitalize on, right? they're going to get the clicks because that's like a teenage boy and you know, oh protein powder, oh creatine powder. But I mean, it's nearly impossible to consume too much protein. Never say never, right? But it would be exceedingly difficult if they're focusing on high protein foods and using some protein powder, right? I mean, your worst outcome there is that it actually turns out to be cake batter and it wasn't actually protein powder. True story. >> Yeah. Um there was also this part about um excessive exercise or yeah obsessive exercise right I mean if you're a kid basically like you can tolerate a ton of like running around play exercise training and recover from that I mean >> it's not really possible unless you're also under fueling. So the problem is not the high amount of exercise it's that you're exercising a ton and not eating. >> Yeah. Yeah. But that would be the issue cuz I mean it's not uncommon for like young men like college athletes, high school athletes, even middle school athletes to like train or like recreationally play sports with their friends several hours per day. >> Yeah. And this is a different thing than depriving of water. They talked about Hugh Jackman and for Wolverine or whatnot, he had to drink less water because they didn't want to edit him in post film apparently. But anyways, um that's a big issue in wrestling and in martial arts and in a lot of other sports, weight cutting and dehydration that doesn't really have a ton to do with anorexia. >> Yeah. And I think that's kind of the default like actors used to be or bodybuilders, right, used to be like, you know, it's chicken, rice, and broccoli and that's how I got the way I am. >> And if they got a lot bigger, all of a sudden they were like, well, that's cuz I was eating more carbs. And then if they got a lot leaner and now the actors are like, "Oh yeah, there was a dehydration protocol." >> Maybe [clears throat] there was, maybe there wasn't, like with AI and after like post-production editing, like there's probably zero need for a dehydration protocol. But maybe they're saying that instead of saying, "I actually wasn't this shredded. It wasn't all that hard to do. >> I have all of my meals made for me by my private chef." which they did allude to that which >> yeah, >> you know, social media you are seeing people who have >> the most resources, the very best genetics and if you're just the average person, you know, that can kind of be disheartening, but I always say like, you know, comparison is the thief of joy. It's like really at the end of the day, it's you against you. Are you getting better? Not are you going to be bigger than Hugh Jackman or not bigger than Hugh Jackman. >> Yeah. Uh I've gotten much stronger and at this point I don't really care about my physique. I'm pro probably am stronger than Hugh Jackman. Um anyways, that's completely separate thought. Um you know, I've achieved the goals that I have with building muscle, building strength, etc. Sure. If you asked me if there's no downsides, would you take >> bigger muscles in general all around? I probably would, except maybe for my pecs because at some point they just get ridiculous. But I hope that the takeaway from this is you should be concerned with your body image but the habits that come along with it are separate. So if you have a habit that is good for your health, eating protein, lifting a ton of uh you know doing a lot of resistance training, exercising a lot, taking creatine, even taking supplements past that for many people, the upside outweighs the downside. So separate those two things. Yeah, I think this could have been a very concise article talking about what things are good as opposed to kind of painting it all in a negative light. Like, hey, exercise, physical activity are good. Eating healthy foods so you can recover from exercise is good. Getting plenty of sleep is good. >> Water cutting bad. Looking too much on social media bad. Looking at fake fake natties bad. >> Exactly. >> Yeah, I think that's a good summary. Maybe we end it there. >> Absolutely. So, as always, thank you for your time and thank you for watching and tolerating our sarcasm. And as [snorts] always, may God bless you with health and happiness. [music]
