# Dr. Gillett explains potential Autism causes

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

been waiting for this meeting for 20 years actually. And it's not that everything's 100% understood or known, but I think we've made a lot of strides. I wish it was done a long time ago. Today, we're delighted to be joined by America's top medical and public health professionals as we announce historic steps to confront the crisis of autism. Horrible, horrible. >> Is that guy a cardiologist? I want to thank the I >> think I've seen him on TV >> who brought this issue to the forefront of American politics along with me >> we actually met in my office is it like 20 years ago Bobby it's probably 20 years ago in New York I was a developer as you probably heard and I always had very strong feelings about autism and how it happened and where it came from >> and uh >> they totally texted RFK and said wearing skinny ties make sure you have a skinny that people were very understanding of where we were, but it's turning out that we understood a lot more than a lot of people who studied it. We think, and I say we think because I don't think they were really letting the public know what they knew. >> Thanks as well to the director of the National Institute of Health, Dr. J. Badacharia, FDA Commissioner, Dr. Marty McCary. These are great people. administrator of the Centers for Medicine and Medicaid Services, Dr. Memedaz, and acting assistant secretary of HHS, Dr. Dorothy Frink. So, thank you all. Thank you, Dorothy, very much. The meteoric rise in autism is among the most alarming public health developments in history. There's never been anything like this. >> Agreed. >> Just a few decades ago, one in 10,000 children had autism. So that's not a long time. And I've always heard, you know, they sell a few, but I think it's a lot less time than that. It used to be one in 20,000, then one in 10,000, and I would say that's probably 18 years ago, and now it's 1 in 31. But in some areas, it's much worse than that, if you can believe it. One in 31. And I gave numbers yesterday. For boys, it's 1 in 12. I was told that's in California where they have a for some reason a more severe problem. But whether it's 1 in 12 or 1 in 31, can you imagine that's down from 1 in 20,000 then 1 in 10,000 and now we're at the level of 1 in 12 in some cases for boys. >> Still a big change after the change in diagnostic criteria. Since 2000, autism rates have surged by much more than 400%. Instead of attacking those who ask questions, everyone should be grateful for those who are trying to get the answers to this complex situation. And the first day, >> we're not particularly political, but we're obviously in the category of people trying to get answers. And to answer the obvious question, yes, there has been a huge change in diagnostic criteria, but it does not account for this level of change. So, >> yeah, it's not 100% of it. And he even said at the outset that they don't have a 100% of the answer. And we're all for people asking questions. Like, we actually enjoy it when patients write us quite long letters or messages with lots of different questions because they're playing an active role in their health. And for better or for worse, people are trying to take an active role in figuring out some causes of things. >> Regardless of what sports team, I mean, political party you support, you should still love it when the people are at least trying to address this by having press conferences. And then you can go to trusted medical information sources, hopefully us and others that you uh trust outside of the political sphere to get to the bottom of new issues like this. complex situation and the first day all of these great doctors behind me were there I I told them this is what we got to we have to find out because when you go from 20,000 to 10,000 and then you go to 12 you know there's something artificial they're taking something and by the way I think I can say that there are certain groups of people that don't take vaccines and don't take any pills that have no autism. That have no autism. Does that tell you something? That's currently Is that a correct? >> I hope he's about to say I assume he's talking about Amish, which just don't diagnose the children that have the autism tendencies. There's a big difference between severe autism and mild autism. For example, in California, if I had not been homeschooled the whole time, if I had gone to public school, perhaps I would have been diagnosed with that um throughout college and medical school, as people can probably imagine, I was actually uh often accused of having Asperers um which is now just part of autism. Um surprise, surprise. But, um anyway, let's see if he says what group of people. >> Is that a correct statement? By the way, >> uh there are some studies that suggest that Yeah. with the Amish, for example. >> The Amish. Yeah. Virtually. I hear no. I I heard none. See, Bobby wants to be very careful with what he says. And he should, but I'm not so careful. >> It's possible that they heard this on the Theo Vaughn podcast. He did a podcast with a young Amish male and said that he didn't know of any autism. So, that's probably the source there. >> Checks out >> with what I say. But you have certain groups, the Amish as an example, they have essentially no autism. First, uh, effective immediately, the FDA will be notifying physicians that the use of said, well, let's see how we say that >> acid >> menophen. Acetaminophen, >> is that okay? >> Which is basically commonly known as Tylenol. during pregnancy can be associated with a very increased risk of autism. So taking Tylenol good. All right, I'll say it. It's not good. For this reason, they are strongly recommending that women limit Tylenol use during pregnancy unless medically necessary. that's uh for instance in cases of extremely high fever that you feel you can't tough it out you can't do it I guess there's that it's a small number of cases I think but if you can't tough it out if you can't do it uh that's what you >> extremely high fever is also not good for your brain so it's not just about toughing out a high fever especially in young children there's a risk of something called febriles seizures and in adults it can actually lead to significant neurologic damage almost like a concussion. Not exactly. And I'm sure that RFK and Dr. Oz would probably be chiming in here too. They just don't have the >> they don't have the mic. >> Yeah. They don't have the ability to pause President Trump and then butt in. >> Yeah. I don't know if he's talking about toughing out the fever or like toughing out a you know a headache, you know, because you take Tylenol for a headache occasionally. I mean, in my experience, it doesn't tend to work particularly well, >> but uh it may be the sort of best safest thing if you have a headache that's impairing your quality of life and ability to exercise, for example, during pregnancy, something like that. >> This would be a great point where he could mention as a reminder, uh, Advil and ibuprofen and a leave are still not safe in pregnancy and not recommended in any quantity. And I do like that he said limit acetaminophen use. Again, there's no safe amount of alcohol known during pregnancy. So we recommend zero alcohol during pregnancy and we recommend zero incaids which would be ibuprofen and neproxin and others during pregnancy. And now I actually agree with this recommendation limiting Tylenol during pregnancy. >> Yeah, I think as natural as reasonable was our take last time. I think that sounds pretty good. going to have to do. You'll take a Tylenol, but it'll be very sparingly. Can be uh something that's very dangerous to the woman's health. In other words, a fever that's very very uh dangerous and ideally a doctor's decision because I think you shouldn't take it and you shouldn't take it during the entire pregnancy. They may tell you that toward the end of the pregnancy, you shouldn't take it during the entire and you shouldn't give the child the Tylenol every time he goes. he's born and he goes and has a shot, you shouldn't give a Tylenol to that child. All pregnant women should talk to their doctors for more information about limiting the use of this medication while pregnant. So, ideally, you don't take it at all. But if you have to if you can't tough it out if there's a problem, you're going to end up doing it. Uh the other thing that I can tell you that I'll say that they will maybe say at a little bit later date but I think when you go for the shot you do it over a five time period take it over five times or four times but you take it in smaller doses and you spread it out over a period of years and they pump so much stuff into those beautiful little babies it's a disgrace. I don't see it. I don't I think it has I think it's very bad. They're pumping. It looks like it. >> Is he no longer talking about Tylenol? He's talking about immunizations now. >> Yeah. He said take it four or five times and I thought he was about to switch teams and come out in favor of booster shots but then we got some more information and it sounds like he's talking about getting the recommended vaccines but on a more spaced out schedule which is tough because a lot of these are combination vaccines now you may be getting immunization for four different potential diseases in one shot. >> Yeah. So I are vaccine makers really going to pivot and put all these things in like individual single dose shots because then you're actually giving more injections to a child and not less. >> Yeah. For my three kids when I go to the health department or other places where I can get immunizations because I do not have typical health insurance. I have Christian health sharing and I want to get a pedix which is a combination of several vaccines. It's about $100. But if I want to get just a prevenar, so just um pumacus or numaccoal disease, which is one of the most concerning ones that almost everybody gets um common cause of pneumonia, ear infections, sinus infections, etc. Just that one is more than $250. So if you just want one of them, it's significantly more expensive and you have to get many of these. So this is uh you know more than $1,000 per child if you just want to get one of these. So, even as a physician in Kansas, which you think would be, you know, relatively easy access to care, it's not like there's um, you know, that many people who are uninsured in this state, at least that I know of. There's a lot of people with Christian health sharing that come to our clinic. It is extremely frustrating. And whenever I go to the website, it says if there is a multiple hour wait. So first of all, they don't take appointments and I have to wait hours in order to get uh each of my kids one single immunization and then I have to come back there how many time? Like I probably have to come there 10 times, 15 times. That's assuming I bring all three of my kids. And then if the wait time exceeds the time that they're open, so if I go after work, I have to wait one hour but they close. They just cut off the line. and they send you home and you have to come back a different day. >> Is that how it really works? >> They both they even post it on their website because it happens so often. >> Oh >> yeah. I'm not happy about this. Maybe we'll do a separate podcast about this, but people can tell I am I am not happy. >> Pumping into a horse, you have a little child, little fragile child, and you get a a vat of 80 different vaccines, I guess, 80 different blends and they pump it in. Uh so ideally a woman won't take Tylenol and on the vaccines it would be good instead of one visit where they pump the baby loaded up with stuff. Uh you'll do it over a period of four times or five times. I was I mean I've been so into this issue for so many years just because I couldn't understand how how a thing like this could happen. And you know it's artificially induced. It's not like something that uh when you when you go from all of those, you know, healthy babies to a point where I don't even know structurally if a country can afford it. And that's the least of the problems to have families destroyed over this is just so so terrible. I also uh and we've already done this. We want no mercury in the vaccine. We want no aluminum in the vaccine. The MMR I think should be taken separately. This is based on what I feel the uh MS measles and and all the three should be taken separately and it seems to be that when you mix them there could be a problem. So there's no downside in taking them separately. In fact they think it's better. So let it be separate. the uh chickenpox is already separate because when that got mixed in I guess they made it four for a while it really was bad. So they make chickenpox individually they're okay when you mix them something maybe happens. So there's no downside in doing it. It's not like oh if you do it bad things no it's only good side. Yeah, I think you just mentioned the downsides is I mean in at least the way the United States is set up for child care and parents and return to work, there's a big emphasis on like the women's return to work. I would say the vast majority of women return to work. So if you're thinking about even someone in the traditional system, the health insurance system, taking their kid to instead of, you know, perhaps six or eight visits between vaccines and illness over the first year of the baby's life and whatever else may happen to come up, >> you're talking about like tripling or quadrupling that number. So now you have, you know, 20some visits potentially. >> Yeah. Um, and I mean if if this is a magic wand situation and this is the one change that uh eliminates autism, which I don't believe. >> Yeah. >> Um, then yeah, sure, maybe that is a fair trade-off, but I don't think we have evidence of that. >> I agree. Um, and obviously there's more pokes for the child, especially when the child's relatively young, and this does delay the time that they have some immunity. So for kids who start um daycare or Montasauri schools or whatever people are calling daycare these days to feel better about themselves um they're going to spread more illnesses. So I would argue that rather than say just delay them and spread them out and separate them, why don't we concentrate on the ones that really matter which right now in my opinion is numacco which is traptoicus pneumonia which I previously mentioned very common people get pneumonia ear infections all the time and hib which is hemophilus influenza type B. Uh again one of the most common causes of these infections that a lot of kids will get. this might change just like when we had the pandemic COVID became very you know uh widespread and people could just go to the pharmacy and very easy um it it's very easy to get a or it was very easy to get a co shot too easy and it was very easy to get a flu shot and if we really cared about numaccoal disease and hib then you could go to any pharmacy any clinic anywhere and ideally for free as long as you're ready to get this immunization get your child immunized against it. >> Yeah. So, you're talking about just stratifying in order of like what is the infection that's most likely to occur, right? Yeah. >> Like numaccoal infections are extraordinarily more likely than a polio infection. So, maybe polio doesn't go on the CVS list where you just walk in and get it done, but maybe a new maco vaccine does. >> Yeah. And people say, well, I don't want any immunization or medication um unless I'm going to die from it. And that's a little bit of a straw man argument because one, you don't know if you're going to die from it or not. Two, um, are you really not worried about quality of life? Because a lot of these same people will take medications and at the end of the day, an immunization is just a medication in injectable form that induces an immune response. Um, so if you're like, let's say you, you know, you're going to get this disease over and over again, you have these fevers, you're very sick, that does cause transient inflammation in the brain, and you're a lot less likely to have to be as smart and to do as well in school as you're a child. And you're more likely to be hospitalized even for long periods of time, even from something like numaccoal pneumonia. Yeah, I think about that with the sort of this cycle. Um, and you hear stories about these kids that are like, you know, well, they're just always sick, >> you know, and and they're getting respiratory viruses and ear infections and they're kind of because of that, they're operating in this kind of chronically immunosuppressed state. Not that they have immuno deficiency, but it's induced by this infection. And by the time they're about to bounce back, they get something else from daycare or a sibling or grandparents, whoever they happen to be visiting. And you know I think there is something to that this constant inflammation that is the question is the is the prevention worse than the disease and I think certainly not yeah >> you're inducing a sort of controlled predictable response >> um but not absolutely predictable right there's a variation of outcomes and some people will spike a very high fever some people will not but you are almost certainly inducing a rebound immunosuppression if you get an actual respiratory virus or infection like this >> for example pertasus which is whooping cough um I have taken care of many kids that have this and there are some communities we mentioned the Amish community earlier as one that does not have high rates of autism but they do have much higher rates of pertasus at least anecdotally I don't know for sure if that's true on a population basis but I bet that it is so there's a lot of upsides and downsides and it's the same as giving somebody a medication people shouldn't go to their doctor and just be injected with GLP1 once in testosterone. Although some people think that some influencer doctors say >> you have to space it out over four or five shots. >> Yeah. Um anyways, um they should talk about this like anything else. So let's keep going. This is good. >> So let those be taken separately and then hepatitis B is sexually transmitted. There's no reason to give a baby that's almost just born hepatitis B. So I would >> this is a point that I agree a lot on. Yes. And >> assuming that both parents have been tested and they are monogamous, your risk is near zero. >> Mhm. >> For the hepatitis B being contracted during the birth process. >> Yep. Agreed. >> Say wait till the baby is 12 years old and formed and take hepatitis B. And I think if you do those things, it's going to be a whole different it's going to be a revolution in a positive >> series. I mean, if you think about to me, I think about, you know, what is the uh is the child going to be socially interacting potentially being exposed to, you know, blood, right? There's a small chance they could be >> very low chance, >> but delaying to 12 years just because the hepatitis B virus is harder to kill than some other viruses. I mean there's cavi wipes and things like this people can go on buy that you could disinfect a surface and kill the hepatitis B virus and a lot of other viruses that we vaccinate against roto virus and so forth. >> I don't know if 12 years is the right number. I don't know who would be the best judge of that. >> Yeah I think that people can judge on a case-byase basis. For example, for the HPV immunization, Gardil, it's usually about the same time you start, but people can start earlier and later for a variety of different reasons, exposure risks and whatnot. So, I think it's a it's reasonable on a population level, but just like uh you know, most kids go to their doctor visit and your pediatrician or your family doctor literally just checks boxes the whole time and just make sure that there's nothing off. So rather than doing that, they should have a discussion um assuming the other development milestones are normal. You know, a nice long discussion about the benefits and risks of each immunization, including hepatitis B. For some people, I think it would make sense um never to give them the hepatitis B vaccine. >> Yeah, I think I would put myself in that category, right? I've had I don't know how many series of hepatitis B shots. >> Me, too. But I am a non-responder. So for me to take that vaccine, it is 100% risk and 0% benefit. >> Same. >> So there's a lot of people who and and again I don't think that this is looked at because the initial approval studies done, you get the vaccine approval and they're not looking at what are the like zero conversion rates of immunity that are being conveyed now. Like so like before kids are going off to college or entering high school. It's like, yeah, it's not a bad idea to check and see what they're actually immune to >> instead of assuming that, oh, you took this medication, so you're protected, >> because it's not the case. >> I'd love to see insurance cover checking titers better and checking for natural immunity as well. sense in the country. Uh the FDA will be updating the label of an existing drug to reflect potential benefits in reducing some autism symptoms. This gives hope to the many parents with autistic children that it may be possible to improve their lives. That's one of the things that I'm very very happy about. I mean, this was mostly going to be on how not to have the child affected, but we've learned some pretty good things about uh certain elements of genius that can be given to a baby and the baby can get better and in some cases maybe substantially better. uh not going to be easy but uh be a lot easier if it didn't happen in the first place as these great parents fully understand right they fully understand I feel so terribly for I have so many friends with autistic children it's it's just it's a tough situation finally to help reach the ultimate goal of ending the autism fever the NIH will be announcing 13 major grant awards from the autism data science initiatives And to be honest with you, to me that's the least important. It's not even a money thing at this point. There's so much money, but they have to do and they have to move quickly. They they when the alternative is that nothing bad can happen, let's do it now. I was just saying to Bobby and the group, let's do it now. Nothing bad can happen. It can only good happen. But with Tylenol, don't take it. Don't take it. And if you can't live, if your fever is so bad, you have to take one because there's no alternative to that. Sadly, first question, what can you take instead? It's actually there's not an alternative to that. And as you know, other of the medicines are absolutely proven bad. I mean, they've been proven bad with the aspirins and the Advils and others, right? And they've been proven >> good job. Very happy to see this. Uh, >> yeah. Circled back, too. >> Very, very reassuring. So, um, you know, hopefully it's not seen as too political and people will actually listen to that good advice. That being said, there is always kind of an alternative. For example, for headaches, one of the best evidence for essential oil is essential peppermint oil. Um, even for topical use may help headaches to some degree. And then there are supplements that are safe in pregnancy that might help for some causes of headaches or, you know, if you're sick. For example, taking NAC is reasonable and that might help for um you know whatever cold symptoms you have that might be headache related or earachche related. >> Yeah. Or even along you know the lifestyle side of things you like why is somebody getting the headaches? Is it an ergonomics or a posture thing? Um, I know that my wife had some back pain during pregnancy and one of the things we did to solve that was she saw a chiropractor, had some manual therapy done, did some exercises and was able to, you know, control that through lifestyle. And I think >> making those resources more accessible to people. >> If the goal is really to minimize the Tylenol but not maximize like pain and suffering, which I don't think that's the goal, then you do have to have some alternatives. It's not just, you know, 9 months is a long time to like quote tough it out. I I don't feel like I'm I'm not as brave as President Trump to just say that to all the women out there. Just tough it out. >> Yeah. >> Thank you very much, Bobby. Please. >> Thank you, Mr. President. Uh to meet the president's challenge, I ordered HHS to launch an unprecedented all agency effort to identify all causes of autism, including toxic and pharmaceutical exposures. at President Trump's urging NIH, FDA, CDC, and CMS are turning over every stone to identify the ideology of the autism epidemic and how patients and parents can prevent and reverse this alarming trend. We have broken down the traditional silos that have long separated the ADA agencies and we have fasttracked research and guidance. Historically, NIH has focused almost solely on politically safe and entirely fruitless research about the genetic drivers of autism. And that would be like studying the genetic drivers of lung cancer without looking at cigarettes. And that's what NIH has been doing for 20 years. As a result, we don't have an answer to this critical question. Despite the cataclysmic impact of the epidemic on our nation's children, we are now replac we are now replacing the institutional culture of politicized science and corruption with evidence-based medicine. NIH research teams are currently testing multiple hypotheses with no area off limits. We no area off limits. Does that mean that they will look at pre-reg maternal obesity in terms of actual body fat percentage, not pounds that they weigh? Um, I always bring up the example of my wife because she's kind of the one female that I can talk about on the podcast and you know it'd be okay. Um, very lean um but uh lots of muscle mass, lots of lean body mass and um she's she's quite tall as well. So, I don't know exactly what her pre-preg BMI would be, but I bet it would be 25 or 26. Um, so, um, if you're if there's really no spot off limits, I think that the epidemic of metabolic syndrome and obesity, including pre-preg, is a risk factor. And I think that pre-reg maternal age is also likely going to be at least correlated, but not necessarily causatory. Yeah, I suppose I could use some of the same rhetoric in talking about that issue like preconception. You could say that there's, you know, quote, no downside for minimizing paternal and maternal preconception obesity. I mean, sure, there's some like uncomfortableness of losing weight and getting into a routine and exercising and there's a time commitment and a financial cost sometimes, but um the outsides far outweigh that. Just, you know, eating better quality foods, eating healthier, moving more, exercise. I mean, those are very simple things. Um, and I would be very surprised if healthier people at baseline were more likely to have autistic children. I don't know. I don't know if they're looking at that, but I agree that it's something to look at just for again if we're looking at even a cost savings analysis, right? >> If you're healthier at baseline, you can have less pregnancy complications, less newborn complications. It sort of snowballs in the right direction. What about pre-reg and prenatal mental health medications? >> Looking into it. Yeah. >> See if there's a a correlation there. >> That's tough because then it gets confounded and you'll have people sort of back and forth like, oh, people that have depression um that's untreated, you may see the same risks there as if someone has depression that's treated, but they, you know, still have a diagnosis of depression that they carry. Mhm. >> And with so much of, you know, such a large percent of the population being prescribed anti-depressants, >> I think it gets kind of really kind of muddies the waters. Um, a perfectly acceptable analogy here is >> the uh, you know, PSA and finasteride data. You know, everyone now has a finasteride spray or finasteride pill or dutasteride that they're getting from a hair loss company. So the PSA data and whether those things actually do induce a high-grade prostate cancer like you're going to have some cases that get missed, but the data has all sort of been muddied. I suppose you could say the same thing for the testosterone or the fact that you know over half the population has tried a GLP1 now. Like all these things sort of muddy the data, but if they didn't get it from their doctor in the traditional healthcare environment, then they may not be labeled as someone that tried one of these medications. Certainly. >> And uh thank you, President Trump. >> Thank you very much. >> I'm I'm proud to announce today that the NIH has launched the Autism Data Science Initiative to turbocharge autism research, devoting an additional $50 million to the cause of studying autism. Nearly 250 research teams from across the country uh applied, sent in their applications, and were peer-reviewed by the NIH review panels. Uh the the NIP peer reviewers chose the 13 best projects focused on root causes and therapies with replication and validation studies to guarantee gold standard science. The studies feature a new kind of science called exposomics where scientists consider environmental and medical factors, nutrition, events during pregnancy in combination with biology and genetics to answer vital questions about autism. >> Sounds like conducted in partnership with >> Yeah, pretty much. It's just individualized medicine but on a larger scale for a study sounds expensive too with >> families and physicians is the best way to arrest and reverse the autism epidemic. Autism spectrum disorder encompasses a very wide range of symptoms ranging from mild difficulties with social interactions to profoundly autistic children who experience severe disabil uh disabilities in in speech and behavior. Given this wide range of symptoms across the spectrum, it seems certain that there will be a wide range of biological contributors to explaining the cause. The great thing about the new NIH initiative on autism is that scientists will use rigorous advanced methods in causal inference, machine learning, organoids, and other fresh approaches to the problem. The sharp rise in the prevalence of autism deserves an urgent response by the scientific community. Uh, as Bobby said, the NIH has invested a lot of money to study autism over the years, but the research has not produced the answers that families and parents of autistic children deserve, and autistic children themselves deserve. For too long, it's been taboo to ask some questions for fear the scientific work might reveal a politically incorrect answer. Because of this restricted focus in scientific investigations, the answers for families have been similarly restricted, often pointing families to behavioral therapies that that don't work for every kid or suggest non-modifiable genetic factors as the cause. But genetics alone can't explain such a sharp rise in autism prevalence over the just a few decades. as the as as the president said in coming months and years as NIH >> this is a great um similarity to how people in the obesity medicine field will blame obesity on genetics and neglect the environment right the you know prior to the intervention of the GLP-1 agonists you know they pointed people to correct but not necessarily useful advice right like behavioral therapy is >> almost always correct advice but it may not be useful just like move more and eat less is correct, but it may not be useful to someone. So, I think it's very similar where you have people saying genetics, genetics, genetics, and they're looking at the environment. And my hot take is that if something is 100% environment, um then it's not genetic. If something is 100% genetic, then it's not the environment. But there's very very few circumstances like that that >> um don't have overlap. Even you know lung cancer for example you mentioned earlier nicotine tobacco spec specifically spack smoked tobacco not like nicotine pouches >> but there's plenty of smokers probably most smokers don't actually get lung cancer they'll harm their health in other ways but >> you know some people are going to be genetically more prone to cancers than others. >> Yeah Dr. Dr. Tommy Wood has a good brain health podcast and he talks about the relationship between body composition and mental health and cognition and it makes sense that this is not just applicable in adults and geriatric population. It's also applicable in children and even before a child is born. >> A Mount Sinai Harvard study reviewed all the existing literature and found the overwhelming body of evidence points to an association. Sure, you'll be able >> So, we've already reviewed this information to some degree. We'll link the other podcast that we did just about one week ago before we were live reacting to this live stream. Uh this physician is a very good speaker. I almost got chills as he started to talk. Um maybe it's just because I've had many patients with autism and actually several with severe autism, nonverbal autism. And he is absolutely right. And I think we should address the environmental factors. I'm just worried that people will say, "Well, there's u it's not just environmental factors." So, like I said earlier, it's both. It's genetics and environment. So, this is definitely a good thing. And I'm not too familiar with him. He did go to John's Hopkins, the same institution as our colleague, Dr. Taylor Martin, who works with us. And he was also a preventive medicine physician. And uh we have talked about all three of these studies I believe and also the studies that had a negative result. But I think he uh this physician Dr. Mari is just kind of rehashing the point that um we need to look into this and we will continue to do so. >> Yeah. And there's a little bit of hyperbole sprinkled in there which they're trying to drum up funds and I suppose you have to say things like that that this may be 100% preventable or entirely preventable. I think that's extraordinarily unlikely. Yeah. But um I guess it's the age-old question of does the means justify the ends if saying things like that that aren't 100% true get more funds to look into and improve the quality of life for millions of children. >> No, that's a pretty good outcome. I don't know if that's the outcome we'll get, but >> um I think that's a little bit of hyperbole because you can do all the right things and still develop a condition. So just because someone has a child with autism doesn't mean they did something quote unquote wrong. >> Yeah. And it might not make them more or less intelligent. But if we can make every child, even a child who is not diagnosed with autism better socially, whether that is interventions like less iPad and screen time when they're younger or things like this and environmental toxins, I think that's something that we should strive as society as a society to do is to have everyone reach a high nobody's going to reach a perfect potential, but a high potential with the amount of intelligence and also emotional intelligence or socialization that they can have. I think that pretty much sums it up for today. Um, we will link the other podcasts that we've done. Hopefully, this wasn't too political for people, but um, it was media day, podcast day, and I saw that this press conference was happening. So, I was extremely interested to hear the press conference and the different fantastic things and little bit of faux paws that people have said. So, comment below, I guess, if you agree with us or agree with the um current uh leaders of the FDA and NIH and whatnot and what you think about these. Is this legitimate concerns for these various environmental toxins? Um other than the things that we listed and talked about, what does the audience think u is causing autism? >> Yeah. >> Other than genetics and toxins, like what that Yeah. If you can give us specific examples, we will look into it as well. >> Yeah. I think I see mostly politics as entertainment value. But then whenever you have something that's adjacent to my field, right, related to health and medicine um and it potentially impacts the conversations going be having with patients or the health of people in general um then I do take interest in that. So hopefully people enjoyed this and um let us know what you thought in the comments. And as always, may God bless you with health and happiness.
