# Bioidentical V.S. Non-Bioidentical Hormones

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

What is ACOG and why are they warning people about bioididentical hormones? [music] Welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast. My name is James O'Hara and today I'm joined by Dr. Dan Bristo who is a OBGYn and we're going to talk through hormones and some common women's health topics. Some niche things that perhaps it's only me that find interesting but I'm going to ask him anyway. So without further ado, Dr. Dan Bristol, thanks. >> Thanks for joining me. >> Thanks. Thanks for having me. >> So ACOG warns against bioididentical hormones. This is a headline from a couple of years ago, but it's gotten traction again. Uh what is ACOG and why are they warning people about bioididentical hormones? >> Yeah, good question. Um so ACOG is our governing body, American College of Obstition Gynecology. Um really to bring in what I would say classic OB/GYN thinks about hormones would be use the smallest amount for the smallest amount of time for the alleviation of symptoms. Um so >> which is how we think about antibiotics >> essentially >> except the symptom part like you want to get rid of the [laughter] infection >> right you want to complete your entire antibiotics folks. Um so but in terms of that how we how we're trained is alleviation of symptoms is is the main um aspect and so we classically think as something that is analogous to how the body makes it. So bio identical would be the best formulation. Um but ACOG has um really taken more of the uh conservative stance when it comes to hormones and hormones man hormonal management which kind of classifies and how I would describe how I was trained. Um so even describes about compoundingies using the phrase bioidentical hormone as a marketing tool um to imply that these preparations are natural and thus safer and more effective. Um, and the FDA approved uh menopausal medications to use bioidentical or synthetic hormones or both. But ACOG says that evidence is lacking. So supporting marketing claims of safety um and effectiveness is is the thing that they're um concerned by. So >> right, so a compounding pharmacy that makes a say estradile cream, right? They haven't gone through a phase three trial and gotten FDA approval. So you don't necessarily have data on hey here's the average serum hormone levels this many percentage of patients gets relief of symptoms taking this hormone >> but we know that lots of people do choose to use compoundingies for many reasons some of that I I think a very small piece of the pie is probably marketing related but I could be wrong there and I don't necessarily know what the general population thinks about that but it's a an interesting way to phrase it because I I think the general population has become more educated on this. It's become more invogue over the past 5 years or so, I'd say, to talk about hormone replacement therapy, not just in the context of a little bit for a little while, but like >> health span. So, it's interesting that their stance is against bioididentical, not against compounded. It's like a kind of um roundabout way of saying that compounded hormones may have some safety concerns, >> right? because it's not as regulated. And I would say like just to break down how we would use um hormones in terms of the language. So bioidentical hormones um really hormones that are chemically identical as we'd say to those produced by the human body. Um sources are often derived from plant precursors like yams and soy and synthesized to match human hormones. Examples of this are estradile or E2, progesterone and not medy progesterone but and then micronized progesterone. And then number two would be like compounded bioididentical hormones which is what we've been talking about. Um these are more custommade. I think that's where where they would focus in on preparations of bio identical hormones mixed by a compounding pharmacy that has and lacks regulations. Um some examples of this are like the custom dose topical estradile um with a progesterone creams, troy's pellets, sublingual tablets. Um pros of this obviously tailored dosing delivery method has some flexibility but the cons are of course not FDA approved um less standard standardization and then um possible variation in the potency and the purity. And then two more we've got the compounded uh nonbiioidentical hormones. Um this is like the custom mixed formulations of non-biodidentical. This is what also what we call synthetic. Um it's not structurally identical to human hormones. Um, examples of this are how we'd say custom compounded hydroxy progesterone or ethanol estradiol. Um, and this we know that that it can increase uh risk due to unpredictable unpredictable uh metabolism and effects. And then the last one commercially biioidentical hormones um biioidentical hormones that are FDA approved and manufactured and standardized dosing by pharmaceutical companies. These are examples that we know is like chimera estrace um vivvel dot with micronized progesterone like prometrium and then um testosterone gels and patches like the androgel. Um obviously the the pros of these are FDA regulated for purity, potency, safety and consistency, but the cons are limited to available doses with delivery method. So that's kind of a long spiel. >> Yeah. And we can create a a chart post this that kind of puts those four categories up there with some of those examples just for people to know it maybe learn what they're taking whether they're taking bio identical whether they're taking something synthetic. Um you mentioned the VL dot which I really like but I can I don't want to say never but it's difficult to findarmacies that stock it or order it. Um, and even sometimes when I put dispenses written, they will tell the patient it's VLE, but give them like a generic Sandos or some other manufacturer patch. So, yeah, what is the secret to finding where the VL is hidden? >> That is a great question. >> I've heard rumors that it's it's maybe not being produced or that it like the patent transferred or it was acquired, something like that. >> Yeah, I honestly I don't know as well, but I'm I'm curious to find wherever we find it. Please comment if you know where. >> Yeah. Yeah. People are like, "I'm not going to give away my secrets." Where I'm [laughter] getting them, though. >> It's like moral mushroom hunting. Don't Don't give away your honey hole. >> But, uh, why would you prescribe a synthetic hormone, for example? >> I think I think honestly some of the the things that we look forward in terms of evidence, you know, you say, "Oh my gosh, it's FDA approved. Fantastic." But some of the the things that I know that even other um OBGYNS um like to obviously um take into consideration is patient autonomy and preference. I mean, hey, if you can get a cream that focuses on compounding those um those hormones, I mean, that's you use that um effectively. I think that that is one of the best ways that you can have a patient actually do what you um would prescribe rather than being like, "Hey, this is FDA approved and this is the only thing I'm going to do." So, I think that there's really a risk benefit that you talk to your patients about and say, "Hey, what's here's what the lay the land is," which I think is it's important to be um knowledgeable about the the different types rather than just saying this is what I was taught. This is this is what I was um discussed with in training. But I think at the end of the day, it comes to patient preference um with knowledge that yes, although they're not um FDA approved, I think that there is enough body of evidence um whether large anecdotally um to suggest that this is this is still okay. >> Yeah. I mean, there are some patients that hate big pharma. They hate the FDA. Maybe they hate the FDA less now, but you know, [snorts] they don't want to contribute to that system financially and they're willing to use a compounded product. So, that may be less bad or maybe a net positive rather than saying, okay, you don't go on any HRT and you're going to have a loss of bone density and a loss of some insulin sensitivity and some Android body fat accumulation. some of these things that are just going to happen with aging without HRT in the picture, >> right? >> So, I I think that's a good point. And to pivot, you know, we talked about why we might prescribe compounded hormones, you know, why might you prescribe synthetic hormones? People are very afraid of synthetic hormones, I think, in the wake of the women's health initiative, but just thinking in broad terms of women's health. So, like birth control is one example, right? >> Yeah. >> Synthetic, it's a hormone, but it's extremely frequently prescribed. Yeah. >> So, how do you think about that? Do you think about synthetic versus bio identical day-to-day? And what are the most common indications for a synthetic hormone over a bio identical? >> Yeah. I mean, I think something that needs to be clarified is that biioidentical doesn't always necessarily mean natural. They're synthesized but match human hormones. We'll say exactly, but again, they're doesn't mean that they're um more beneficial. And then synthetic in in kind of the um opposite way is they don't it doesn't necessarily mean evil. Um some have different receptors and have different activities higher side effect risks. So if you have like drespironone for example and then you have a patient with PCOS um you would want to use something that's more anti-androgenic um whereas someone who is just trying to cope with um dysmenorhea or painful periods um ovarian cysts that kind of thing. So I would say that it really is dependent on somewhat of the beneficial side effect profile um kind of what you're looking to gain with different types of synthetic um hormones. I think that's where it has its benefit. Um whereas the biioidentical doesn't necessarily have some of that tailored aspect to it. >> Yeah, you can kind of capitalize on what the different medication profile is because they can sort of dial up the androgenic activity or dial down or you can create a negative androgenic profile of some of these. Um and you know like you alluded to controlling bleeding, right? There are synthetic progesterines that are going to do that much better than just bioidentical progesterone can. So, I think that's important for people not to fall into this sort of, you know, natural fallacy of like, you know, it's natural, so it must be better, >> right? >> You know, air conditioning is not natural. But right now, it's it's like 95 degrees out here and right >> I I think air conditioning is better. So, I think as natural as is reasonable is sort of the I don't know the phrase that kind of captures my thinking around it. >> Yeah. I mean, and then you brought up the women's healthcare initiative and I think this is a really important topic in OBGYn and I want to do it justice. Um, but also it's just when it first came out and there's been many people that have covered the Women's Healthcare Initiative. So, I'm not I'm not trying to beat a dead horse, but um I would say classically in training um it was hormones are bad in any formulation because the Women's Healthcare Initiative had said, "Okay, we've got decreased um we've got really downstream effects that are um disadvantageous to women's health." and then looking at the study population seeing that it was not for the first 10 years of menopause. Um they had had done a study sample population that was not what women classically who need HRT have. So like in the per menopause and early menopausal period um the follow-up study actually showed beneficial cognitive bone cardiovascular benefits. And so I think to say it's it's important that especially now being a relatively new OB/GYN um to not shy away from not only the use of hormones but to be um really versed on on these different types because to say that it's um to only give a certain hormone replacement therapy for a smallest amount of time it doesn't take into consideration all the different types of and different ways in which you can um provide that. Yeah, it's interesting like the way I've sort of two patterns of thought that I have around the women's health initiative, you know, one is the comparison to the use of say is let's just take the bad things, right? The madroxy progesterone that seem to cause most of the problems >> um in treating diabetes, sulfanoras are there, right? People can prescribe those, but they basically lead your pancreas to burning out faster in simple terms, right? they're associated with increased, you know, stroke and event rates and lots of bad things. So, I could take a sulfonora study and say, well, we should not treat diabetes at all or we should treat it for the shortest amount of time to relieve symptoms. Right. >> Right. And you know, that's you me being funny and saying, haha, look how ridiculous this is. But it's just an analogy for people to take another condition, chronic condition, right? and see how okay that line of thought doesn't track with this so it it doesn't necessarily track with the other and the other for me is like these were synthetic hormones right I don't think there was a bioidentical arm it was hydroxy progesterone and conjugated ecoin estrogen >> y >> so even though they were synthetic there were still some benefits in certain places you know detriments in certain places right >> not huge detriments but now with the bio identicals that are available to be prescribed commercial bio identicals is what I tend to prescribe most of the I might do some compounded bioidenticals but not a huge margin of them. But it's almost like why are people still talking about the women's health initiative? Because at least the people I follow or the people that are in my circle I talk with don't prescribe hydroxyp progesterone or CE, >> right? >> So I mean are there obs gynecologists out there that are still prescribing those or has that just largely gone away but people are still kind of talking about the WHI because it was such a big thing? Yeah, I mean it truly informed um I would say the last 20 years of I would say gynecologic care for menopause. So, um I think newer um obviously with the follow-up arm for that um that looked at what I would say the appropriate population um really we've started to adapt back to say hey it's it's not um the uh the worst thing in the world and I think that some of the abdication in responsibility towards um women that are going through this um if you're claiming to be an OBGYn um I feel like it's important to not only take care of them while they have their babies, but also take care of them in the in the life stage where they spend the majority of their time as well, which is in that menopausal period. And so, just to say I don't prescribe hormones, I think that's kind of a copout. Um, and again, that might be a little bit more um we'll say uh how would you say um probably controversial. Um but I think it's important that we um take care of the whole patient. And I think that just saying that I'm going to um only stick with this one aspect because that's how I've been trained is is I feel like a disservice. So, that's why I'm personally trying to uh really dig deep in hormones and and you guys at Gillette Health are amazing at being able to not only tailor your um treatment towards your patients, but you just have an incredible wealth of knowledge. So, yeah, it's going to be fun to learn. >> Yeah. Well, thank you for the kind words. And I I think yeah, certain people are going to limit their scope in in certain areas, right? I I don't really see pediatrics even though my degree says I can see pediatrics because I feel like you know if I focus on fewer things I'll be better at those things like you know the the jack of all trades but master of none and there's great people that see kids and adults. I'm just not one of those people that sees people across the lifespan including childhood. >> Um adults tend to be a little bit more rational and better historians. That's my defense. Um, but there's great people in this office that I can refer if children want to be seen, right? I've got Dr. Mark Gillette, Amanda Morris, and other nurse practitioners. So, I think if you're a provider that's in a hormone specialty, I'm just going to call OBGYN that it's kind of like where else are women going to go for hormones? Probably not an endocrinologist. Um, then they should at least have someone's like, "Oh, hey, I don't do hormones, but you know, Dan Bau does. Let me send you to him. He's a great guy." That way the patient isn't sort of like well you know this is me now. Um and one more little jab I'll throw at ACOG then we can move on from that topic is why are they worried about the safety and efficacy and absorption and metabolism of compounded hormones if most like traditional obguins aren't checking serum levels anyway? I honestly think that with the I guess the how we would describe when we would use hormones, it would be based off symptom management. So, is it going to change how I prescribe if I'm, you know, just going off symptoms? Hey, I'm going to give you the smallest dose. You come back in um a couple months and see how have your symptoms changed. if you're still having hot flashes, mood swings, um then we go up on your dose. So, I think with that it's it's a little bit more of a copout because do you want to ask questions about testosterone that we necessarily don't um want to because if you are a classic OB/GYN um you would say based off of this testosterone is not something that we would want to prescribe. Um, so I really think it's um it's more in the gray area um where we would where we would kind of discuss I particularly with ACOG if you were a strict by the book um ACOG prescriber um this would be difficult for you. That's why I think it's important to like you said have colleagues that have um knowledge in multiple aspects. Um and I think even if we consider that like yes this is the base in America. I mean but we have so many different other countries that have um are leaps and bounds in uh how they treat women in the menopausal period. And I mean I think that's one of the benefits of um just research um banks that we can look at and say oh the study in Sweden said this or the study in India said this. And so I think it's important that we we shouldn't just throw the baby out with the bathwater. Um, and I think it's important to take a look holistically. >> Yeah, I think that's a a good way to put it. You know, if someone is, you know, has a network and like people that are like lifelong learners like yourself, right? Maybe some people are sunsetting their careers and they're not interested in picking up a new uh sort of specialty or subsp specialty within their specialty. Then, yeah, just having someone to refer to. It's pretty simple. and measuring serum hormone levels. I don't know if it's like the single biggest thing that would change menopause management, but it's up there, right? If you look at maybe a sevenfold difference some studies and like how a patch absorbs in one woman versus the other, like right, >> I don't know if you've seen this, but I like commonly the very highest dose of the estradiol patch 0.1 milligram. >> I'm not seeing a serum level that gets up to above 40. And according to the package insert, it should be higher than that. But I'm seeing women where it's not. Right. So people have different skin permeability. And and I think that's like a big takeaway is if someone is managing hormones, like serum levels is it's a no-brainer to me. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think it's what's so funny is like as recently getting out of training um we talk about reference ranges um that I still need to memorize because we don't we don't use them very often because you're like all right you've got symptoms give you this see you back >> it sounds like psychiatry >> so >> is a psychiatry >> well you you would be you'd be shocked at the amount of psychiatric um uh prompts and uh topics we have we cover in OBGYn um >> that's probably a good thing you know, like, you know, that may be the provider the woman's the most comfortable with, has the best rapport with. >> Well, a lot of a lot of women would I wouldn't say a lot of women, but some women would only visit their OB/GYN. And so it's important to do um like if you're doing a physical exam, check check the thyroid and um things that you wouldn't necessarily say that you would do as a um OB/GYN, but if women only come to you and they don't say come to a family med, um this is kind of where you said like what do you choose to um give your patients or what do you choose to specialize in that it's going to be in maximum benefit for your patient? Um because even though I could potentially diagnose a thyroid cancer, obviously it would be more of like, oh, I feel a nodule there. I'm going to send it off. Um even even as we would think um even for like uh breast exams, I mean I would I'm instructed to know what a what a breast nodule feels like and what is normal and abnormal. Am I a breast surgeon? No. But that's why I would say let's refer um to one of the breast surgeons in town and then we kind of talk about it and discuss. Now pivoting over into I guess or diving deeper into like the functional side of like women's health and hormones. I think compounded preparations are probably more used in practices that brand themselves as functional medicine. Um people have to be careful with that because sometimes there is a financial incentive to prescribe you know compounded versus commercial. So that's just sort of a a tidbit if your prescriber won't send hormones where you want them to be sent. like if you want to get a patch from CVS and they're like, "No, I'll I'll send you this compounded thing." Yeah, maybe that's just a yellow flag because they're not comfortable with anything outside of compounded, but it's a flag, right? Something like that. So, betaglucuronadase. Um, this is something that, you know, I hear mentioned in uh hormone health, right? It's all over, you know, Instagram. I I not really on Tik Tok, but I assume it's on Tik Tok as well now. Um, so what is betag glucaronidadase and you know why does it matter for hormone health? Yeah, that's a good question. And honestly, like even before we had talked about this, um I I started to try to go into a deeper dive because a lot of um what we're starting to realize about um the gut microbiota um really can affect how hormones and uh even hormone management as we were talking earlier um it can really play into it. So if you this is like going back to med school and it it's like pulling teeth but your your liver has a certain job and that if there's too many hormones long story short it can tag a little um like make it into a different so say steroid hormone goes into a glucaronic acid um it can it tag it and then it's it's tagged for excretion. Um so in the gut um there is betagluconadase which is a enzyme that basically deconjugates these hormones. So if you're looking at uh testosterone and estrogen, we'll mainly focus on estrogen. Um these can these deongjugated estrogens that the liver has glucaronidated um those can be reabsorbed. And so thinking about how that works for um I would say OBGI and pathology. If you have a high enough um amount of betaluconidase um say that there are and we know different types of um bacterial microbiota make them in higher amounts. Um they would essentially increase the amount of circulated estrogen in a way that the liver might not be able to keep up with. And so increasing risk for um breast cancer, endometrial cancer, um worsening PCOS, maybe maybe even having some resistance to um things like endometriosis, medical management. So, as we talked about synthetic hormones, um putting someone on um a synthetic hormone to help with um with those symptoms or even like disease progression, we'll say um endometriosis. Um the spatonadase uh research has kind of come up to say, well, maybe there's a link between those two. >> Yeah. And is this something that's like popular enough where patients are coming in and like asking you to test this or they're mentioning this term to you or it's not there yet? >> I don't think it's there yet. >> Okay. No, I think this is kind of on the forefront um of >> more like academically people are interested in it. >> Yeah. And I think even like precision medicine um in looking at stool samples and stuff seeing okay well we know that betalucaronidase maybe plays a factor but it's hard to figure out in this um in this space whether correlation or causation is there because um although and I'd looked at a study there's a I'll just read it case control study measuring betagluconidase um in stool from women with PCOS there was um significantly higher betaglucronase levels in PCOS patients. Um, and betaglucioidase activity was also higher. Um, and essentially saying if you have higher levels of betagluconadase then you would have higher levels of circulating estrogen which would like I said um, further contribute to this pathological process. Um, so observations suggest that the gut enzyme activity may contribute to the hormonal millu of PCOS. So I think that that's yeah something to be explored further and I don't think it's it's really hit any mainstream yet we'll say especially in OBGYn. Yeah, I like the way you described it as sort of, you know, the the liver is tagging these things for elimination, right? Hormones, right? Saying, hey, you know, we have a, you know, it's sort of an extra feedback mechanism. You've got your pituitary and and the liver is sort of regulating, making sure things are flowing out at a steady rate so they don't just build up and build up and then, you know, have a flood of hormones there. But if I can do my very best Dr. Kyle Gillette uh impression here, I'm going to create an analogy. He's an analogy enthusiast. So the liver is like the family that goes into a hoarder's home and they're tagging things. They say, "You've got to throw this out. You've got to throw this out. You've got to throw this out. We've got to get rid of this." And the hoarder is betaglucuronidase and it's going and after the family has left, it's untagging these and saying, "Well, I need to I need to keep this. I need to keep this. I need to keep this. I need to keep this." So it just builds up and builds up and builds up and it's overwhelming. Is that a a fair analogy? >> I like it. It's What's interesting is that does the liver or those who tag it for removal from the house um can it keep up with the hypervigilant >> [laughter] >> um individual that's saying no, I want to keep that and I want to keep that. Um it's hard to tell and that's where we're I I think I'm excited about some of the research with it. Um definitely I would consider like looking at betagluconidase in the stool because there's a couple ways and as I've been researching like betagluconidase can be um decreased and that's um essentially knocking down levels whether it's if we know that certain bacteria um >> so you decrease betaglucuronidase you're going to decrease total hormone exposure is that the correct line of thinking for people who want >> essentially essentially what it looks like but again it's hard to tell like chicken or the egg because if we know um there's looking at menopause um it says after menopause women show reduced gut microbial diversity and lower betagluconidase activity um long-term estrogen supplementation actually decreases fecal betagluconidase activity and correlates with higher lactobacilli abundance. So it's hard to say like what exactly comes first or maybe what's um evident in the pathology is to start. But I think it's I don't know it's it's going to be um something that I might look at to say all right well maybe if we have some resistant type of PCOS or endometriosis that you're still having symptoms. I mean then we'll just throw paint in a wall and see what sticks. I mean I might I might send off a stool betucaronidase assay and um kind of say well is is there something to this? Maybe let's talk about increasing your fiber, increasing um your activity and exercise, which we know is one of the first line treatments for PCOS, for example, um is kind of those lifestyle modifications. >> Yeah. So, aside from, you know, fiber and exercise and, you know, certain supplements, I guess, what are the levers that could potentially be pulled on for someone who say they're eating a good amount of fiber, which uh by my definition is, you know, more than 30 more than 35 grams per day and getting there slowly. If somebody watches this and they eat no fiber and then they go try to eat 35 grams, they're not going to like me. They're going to say, "That guy tried to kill me." Um, but what someone's exercising, they're eating a good amount of fiber. Are there additional levers to try to lower that betalucerase? >> Yeah. And this is something I still need to more look more into, but um, essentially changing the um, gut microbiota. So pre and probiotics have been described as um a possible lever that can be pulled um that we can say well maybe you can alter the amount of betagluconidase um secretreting or I guess um involving bacteria that you have in your gut and then we can see how that works. So I think that changes to diet um even though that we know we'll say as an endpoint um maybe all of these like microenzyatic changes um we haven't necessarily explored and identified until you know as science gets further um progressed and so I think that's one of the cool things um could this be the lynch pin we don't know >> yeah I my intuition is that the bulk of it is going to be lifestyle modification but it would be interesting if there is a highly the selective like betagluceronidase inhibitor, right, that comes on the market and you basically eliminate it as a variable. Is that a good thing? And now you are you flushing out hormones too quickly, right? I don't know. But it would kind of answer some of the questions here about oh that's like everything that this specific enzyme is involved in, >> right? And then I mean even I guess as more of like the we'll say like as my study so you like have knockouts for genes associated with betagluconidase and then maybe they really explore their diet and make sure that there's I don't know maybe they test their stool samples and figure out which um type they of microbiota they have and and try to like really knock down those variables. I think um we'll have a a better idea, but I don't know. I'm just spitballing. I'm not exactly sure where this will lead, but I came across it and like you said, it's been kind of in in the media lately. So, um especially as it relates to OBGYn, um really thinking about this for my uh PCOS patients who come in and they're just ticked because, hey doc, I've I've really I've gone through the um lifestyle changes. Um I I'm still having these issues. Um I don't necessarily want to be on um an oral contraceptive pill. they don't want to be on spolactone. Um and then patients that have um recurrent endometriosis. I mean there's a lot of stuff that we can also talk about with fertility um and fertility management with that um that betron seems to um affect. So I think this is more of a a question that that needs further um answering in research but um definitely something to be explored further. Yeah. >> Yeah. And on the PCOS like in my thinking PCOS the the symptoms are primarily androgen driven. So is it the betalucaronidase like you probably see you know higher levels of estrogen if there's higher betaglucaronidase and these this PCO subtypes that have this issue with betalucaronidase >> but is it the circulating androgens that are also not being metabolized as efficiently that are contributing to some of that problem? Yeah, I mean I I think you hit it on the head. um looking more of this with PCOS patients um there was um classically associated with androgen excess like you said and insulin resistance um but there's also disturbed estrogen metabolism that might also play a role um and this there's a study that showed that women with PCOS had higher fetal betronidase as I said earlier um activity and this activity correlated with estradile and testosterone levels um there's a rodent study that's cited by the authors that found that gut bacterial betagluconidase can alter androgen metabolism via de uh glucaronidation. So >> yeah, it's interesting. It'd be very interesting if you could somehow manipulate the gut bacteria to decrease like the paracrine androgenic activity in the skin, right? So common presentations I think of you know the PCOS they if they don't want to take anti-androgenic medications you know usually it's oily skin acne you know hair thinning you know and of course the metabolic health and body composition that >> they are going to have an uphill battle with doesn't mean it's impossible to do with lifestyle >> but if you could alter at least that paracrine activity in the skin of like testosterone to DHT then like that would be a really a really like important thing to do um like as a positive intervention for these people like you know not everyone is a good candidate I'd argue that there's probably very few people that are good candidates for a five alpha reductase inhibitor >> you know these you know younger women of childbearing age and you know >> you know if you're putting them on a five alpha reductase inhibitor typically it's best practice to also put them on a birth control oral contraceptive so then it's like well the oral contraceptive is going to solve the problem and you don't actually need the finasteride dutastasteride whatever it may Right. >> So, it's a tricky situation and there are some people who are like mature and very health literate and understand what they need to do to prevent keratogenic effects. >> But yeah, if we could start doing things with the gut microbiome to like affect these outcomes, right? Um I think that would be really interesting because if it's just sort of pulling the body's natural lovers, I I feel I don't have evidence for this, but I feel like it would have a better side effect profile. >> So, you're saying natural is better? Yeah, I'm falling for the natural fallacy. That's right. Got it. Yeah. I mean, and really for >> um I even think about my PC or my endometriosis patients. Um there was a study in 2023 that showed that betagluconidase expression was higher in indometriotic lesions than in normal endometrium. Um enzyme promoted proliferation and migration of endometrial stromal cells. um admiiosis, which is essentially where the um endometriotic um we'll say implants actually burrow into the myometrium causing pain. Um essentially um it's it's almost like a type of endometriosis where endometriosis is actually like little implants of the endometrium that spread out through usually the parinal cavity. Um I think that this might be something that it would be obviously further study would be warranted because I mean there's there is some um aspect we'll say correlational causational don't know um like I said maybe it's lynchpin I doubt it but I think it's something that it needs its attention to. Yeah, it's exciting stuff for me uh and for yourself and anyone who's interested in this and you know women's health and hormones. I have I guess one final you know question that um I've heard this by multiple my female patients have came and said this now um you know it doesn't matter if they have endometriosis or if they have you know fibroids or you know like you're describing you know where the endometrial tissue grows into the uterus the adnomiiosis is that how you say it? I always butcher that one. But um they're told by their OBGYNS that oh well fortunately you don't have to worry about this much longer because it goes away once you enter menopause. So on one hand I understand that right these are thought to be estrogen dependent conditions and if estrogen goes away then yeah symptoms are probably going to be maybe not zero but significantly less. Does that still apply for women that are on hormone replacement therapy? >> Yeah. Um, good question. I think it would probably be something that I would look more into before I truly went into the depth of it. But just from patient experiences, um I would say that classically menopause alleviates a lot of those um what we'll say estrogen dependent processes, fibroids, adomiiosis. Um a lot of times we find shrinking of those um over time because of that. Now, if a patient is on HRT is you obviously have those um those receptors that obviously still can um have estrogen that would cause it to grow, but I what we know more so now is that it's the the cycle of the um estrogen and progesterone that can really cause it to grow. So having a kind of a stable um level I think would be u not as we'll say detrimental to um if someone says I really want these fibroids to slow down or decrease um that would be that would be something I would do is place them on obviously um continued but at the end of the day you we have to figure what's your uh what do you want because as um OBGYNS it's um it's easy to say well you could take out your uterus um and that's a viable way to the only way you can actually diagnose adnomiiosis um and MRIs are better now but is um with tissue pathology that you would get via hysterctomy so I think that there is a really good benefit um for certain patients to do surgery and hey I love operating um it's not my go-to because I like to try everything before I try the most um invasive thing, but I I think that um at the end of the day, it's it's going to be what is going to best alleviate symptoms in my mind. And um if we've tried all those things and resistance, um why not take out the organ that is causing the problem, but hot take? >> Yeah. Yeah. Something for people to, you know, prepare for it. Prepare for it and think about maybe it's not the very first thing, but someone comes in with some uh heavier bleeding, you're like, "Oh, yeah, just take it out." Like, no, that that's not what you're talking about. you're talking about sort of >> insurance would be like I'm gonna laugh at you. [laughter] >> Yeah. They're gonna you're gonna, you know, sort of run the gamut of like what's the highest likelihood with the least downsides of solving this problem without, you know, causing uh, you know, major bodily trauma, right? Surgery is a trauma even if it's a positive outcome long term. Um, and I I like the way that you you sort of think about this like and the way that I I sort of have a similar approach thinking of like menopausal hormone replacement therapy. It is different than your naturally fluctuating hormones as a woman when you're 30 or 40 or 50 depending on when you make that transition. You're in menopause. I mean, if I'm prescribing your therapy, you're probably not going to be peing at a 300 or 400 estradile every single month. So, maybe the lack of that cyclical component where it's kind of typically a a lower serum level than when you're 20. Um, and then you have your, you know, progesterone in there consistently or there's other ways to control the indometrial proliferation. >> Yeah. >> But you're probably getting less area under the curve exposure to estrogen total >> and less fluctuations, right? So if you are >> you know ramping up to 300 400 and we think about the tissue >> and maybe it's overexpressing receptors or it's getting sort of like recycled somehow it's getting an amplified signal in that like indometrial tissue that's outside the uterus not where it's supposed to be >> right >> then that 300 becomes a lot more than 300 as far as the tissue action. Whereas if you're you know serum level of 50 and your bones are keeping their mass you feel great you're killing your workouts your insulin's going down. um then maybe you don't have a problem with your indometriosis at a level 50, but you do when you're spiking to 300 every single month. Yeah. >> So, I think we sort of thought about that the same way. Even though, >> you know, I don't know beyond a shadow of a doubt that that's the case. I can just speculate. >> Um and maybe these people know something that I don't. And you know, just magically whenever you >> um haven't had a period for 12 months, then all these symptoms go away. But yeah, [snorts] I'm a little skeptical. >> Yeah. No, I one of the things that I had thought about when you were talking was we put patients on um like an oral contraceptive for recurrent ovarian cysts. And um I I remember specifically um this one lady who was 30 um and already had one ovary out because there was just a recurrence for one letter of torsion. Um, and at the time and and we know enough to know now that like even if the ovary looks necrotic or dead, um, you actually should recommend uh, detoscings it um, and then leaving it in there. And so um, and the ovary is very resilient um, to being able to reestablish um, blood flow. But to put a woman on OCPS, um it's more so to have that and we usually do continuous because we don't want to have those spikes that lead to follicular development and then the just some people's inclination to growing massive cysts and then um obviously having the uh the issues with that whether it's rupture, whether it's torsion. So, um I think that there's benefits to having a really just a manipulate the um the gonatal access to say, okay, well, we don't really want to spike our FH um FSH and LH um to the point that it's going to cause this massive cyst, so we're going to we're going to give you some hormone. in the same way that like HRT um I still think would be really beneficial for patients to say that that have fibroids or admiosis or something um that I don't think would uh necessarily cause those things to grow because you just have a stable but smaller amount over time than what your body had produced. Um that would still obviously help you with your symptoms, phasot symptoms for example. Um so I kind of think of that the same way. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think that's a good point. you know, you're manipulating the stimulus on the tissue. So like the FSH, the development of the follicles, right? You decrease the input, you're going to decrease that risk of that growth. Same thing with decreasing the estrogen exposure for the indometrial tissue and indometriosis where it's not supposed to be. So I guess it's a similar way to think about two very different conditions, but are still under that umbrella of, you know, women's health or hormonal or, you know, estrogen related, something like that. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. I think this has been a really good conversation. Hopefully people understand, you know, bio identical you can get from like a CVS or a Walgreens at big box pharmacy. Um, you can also get them compounded. I I would argue it's a little bit trickier because the reliability and in the serum levels. There may be a little bit of batchto batch variation. We don't know exactly how they're going to absorb. Whereas I have a ballpark idea with, you know, the commercials, but we're still going to check the levels. So serum testing is big and we can put like a little ding for that one. So people's attention. >> So like if you're not going to go with we'll say FDA approved and you want to go with combined that would really be beneficial where you would say okay what's what's your hormone level? Um whereas if if you were classic OBGYn going to treat um for the smallest amount of time the uh the smallest dose then maybe you don't need to really go out and do testing every two to three months or when you come back. um because that's kind of not where you're playing, but if you're playing into the combined um and maybe there's benefit there. I mean, I really think so because like you said, there could be different formulations and um you know, it's harder to to tailor that if you don't have the ability to to measure it. >> Yeah. Yeah. I think the measurement is like we can't measure tissue levels yet like in especially in different tissues like okay that serum level of what means this is happening in the brain or this is happening in the bones like some of those things I think are mapped out a little bit like you know you go higher um like very small amounts of replacement relieve the vasomal motor symptoms like a little bit more seems to be good for the bone health like a little bit more seems to have maybe some endothelial benefits and then like a little bit more that's where maybe there's a positive signal for brain health like I I can pretty confidently say it doesn't harm cognition, but I can't say that like HRT is going to prevent your dementia. Like I think that's a misleading claim. >> Yeah. >> You know, if you squint really hard at some of the data and E4 like ApoE4 carriers, like there might be a signal of like some beneficial things happening there, but that's not like all of the population. It's actually a minority of the population, right? So >> yeah I mean and also if you have um there's I'll I'll use the um vioza is the actual name of it but phzol linotant is the the drug it's a selective neurokin 3 receptor they call it works on like the K&D or candy neurons in the hypothalamus to treat vasom motor symptoms for patients that can't take HRT whether they've got a blood clot issue cardiovascular disease that the cardiologist is like whoa which actually um there has been some more move towards use of say vaginal estrogen. Um patients that have had some hemat hematic malignancies. Um they're actually looking more to say that vaginal estrogen is really like 1/100th of a dose. And we haven't even talked about genital urinary symptoms of menopause. Um this is really just more so the the HRT component focused on vasom motor symptoms. Um but that's a really big um switch too and how um different specialties look at different risk you know because you know the >> [snorts] >> uh analogy of the cardiologist hating the um the kidney docs because >> there's just this antagonistic relationship >> just get more LASIC. >> Yeah, exactly. Like why not? Um so I I think that there's there's some there. Um but yeah. >> Yeah, I think those are important options for people to be aware of. I mean, if someone is like suffering and they're told they're not a candidate for HRT, like there are other things that are out there. I would argue like the Ooza is miles ahead of like peroxitine in terms of controlling symptoms, but the insurance might want you to try peroxitine first. >> Yeah. >> Um, you know, they have to >> play the game and jump through the hoops and that sort of thing. And then vaginal estrogen. I think as we're sitting here right now, they're talking about maybe removing the blackbox warning from that with like breast cancer and and so forth. I haven't heard that, but that would be wonderful. >> It's on the vaginal estrogen, but >> yeah, and I I get that question every single time. >> To maybe three pogs per ml is what it actually raises serum levels. Like it's it's seems like it's enough where a lot of oncologists are like, "Oh, yeah. It's it's not systemic, right? Technically, it's a little systemic, but for like outcomes purposes, it's not systemic enough to matter, >> right?" And then and obviously there's DHEA um that you can give um as a cream. And so there's there's different um ways in which you can get around patients who can't tolerate or take HRT. And I'm I'm by no means >> the expert in in a lot of this. Um but I'm really just interested in it. And so as I gain more knowledge, I'm sure I'll look back at this and be like, "Oh, what did you just say?" Um so um but yeah I I think it's a really I won't say hot topic but um with that with betagluconidase um with how ACOG views um combined hormonal or combined HRT um and I think it's a rolling conversation with the with our patients and yeah it's kind of a >> yeah and maybe I was a little hard on you know ACOG I don't hate ACOG I think that having guidelines in general is a good thing you know it gives people a starting place like some guard rails of like what do you do to like not hurt somebody or like help with certain conditions and you know it's a reasonable starting place and I think I'll borrow a Dr. Gillette analogy you know if you're going to go outside of the guidelines like if you're going to drive your car fast then you should be a skilled driver I think is how he describes it. >> So lifelong learning education talking with you know intelligent colleagues like yourself um that's a big part of what we do. So, you know, having a good network and we're we're happy to have you as part of that and and learn from you, share cases back and forth. So, you know, this has been a lot of fun for me. I hope it was fun for you also. >> Yeah, it was a blast >> and I hope our audience gets some some valuable takeaways from this. So, thanks so much for coming on. >> Yeah. Heck yeah. Thanks for having me. >> Yep. And if people want to find you, how can they do that? >> Um, I honestly don't have much of a social media presence yet. So, um I'll be uh I'll be working um at a hospital here uh shortly as a kind of a transition from residency. So, um always accepting new patients um up at Mosaic um care in St. Joe. So, I'm uh happy and excited to start there. >> Okay. Well, that sounds great. We'll put that in the description for people. As always, uh thank you for watching and may God bless you with health and happiness. [music]
