# Doctor ranks his favorite steroids

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

Oh, Tren Oh, Trenmbbolone is already up there in the S plus tier. >> That's the the manic tier. >> Yeah. So, I uh I don't have too much to say about this one. I would actually put this in F tier. >> Welcome back. We're going to do a tier list about our favorite anabolic steroids. Just kidding. We're going to do a tier list about what we think the best anabolic steroids are from a healthto detriment perspective. >> Yeah. And since I don't understand the concept of tier list like these kids and the letters and what they mean, >> I'm going to rate them on a scale of 0 to 10. >> Seriously? >> Yeah. [laughter] >> You got to be kidding me. No. So the these rankings of anabolic steroids are going to be not on a scale of 1 to 10 but on S is the best for super and then A through F just like in school if people kind of remember that. Did does elementary school and what do they call I was homeschooled so I don't understand but do they do an A through F for school still? >> I don't think they have an S tier. >> They don't have S grades. Is that 5.0 or something? I don't understand how things work again but uh and I think even med school is mostly pass fail like the exams that we used to used to be like the most important score of your life now it's just pass fail but anyways let's move on uh let's start with what is that empower testosterone cipionate are we are we also trying to rank the bottle or are we just saying hey any compounded testosterone cipionate because if we're ranking the bottle there are some sketchy looking bottles up there >> all right so testosterone Cypionate uh compounded as a medication. Um I give this uh would say eight out of 10, but let's go with a tier. >> Okay. >> For the medication, >> I would put this in S tier. So I actually disagree. >> Um I don't know why you would put it in a tier. >> Tends to be a little runs a little hot, right? So the dosage that you get from compounded tends to be a little bit higher [clears throat] >> compared to commercial testosterone >> sipate. >> So compounded testosterone cipientate is definitely an A tier. I like that. Um the commercial variety is not overdosed. I like how you said it runs hot. >> Yeah, it's a little spicy. >> Yeah, it's more often than not it's going to be higher than than lower. They put in a little extra uh chili powder or whatnot. But anyways, uh then you know some benefits of compounded thinner viscosity carrier oils. Easier to drop, easier to inject. You can get a compounded MCT oil. >> Cost is actually lower generally. >> Yeah, that's true. So, lots of upsides to this. A 10ml vial at a, you know, physiologic dose of 150 milligrams a week. That's, you know, 12 bucks per month. That's pretty darn good deal. Um, I guess it's pretty similar for commercial though. One thing that we did not put on this tier list is DHEA. Um, I would put DHEA in D tier. D for DHEA. >> Yeah, I'd probably have to give it a C tier because as many people as I've seen with hair shedding or skin issues or irritability, like it seems to cause more roid side effects than actual steroids. >> There are also people who just anecdotally, you know, swear that they feel amazing while taking it. >> Yeah, that's true. It it has a very um uh the experience of taking it is really variable. I would say it's like a mystery multiplier. >> Yeah. And generally I don't use DHEA unless there's a very specific reason not to. Uh for example um if someone is having a very low DHEA 50 makes them a better candidate for lowd dose DHEA or if maybe they have a high LP little A and a super high SHPG maybe DHEA is reasonable if there's not a there's just better alternatives. That's why it's not great. Um if we didn't have any other androgen we'd probably use DHEA all the time. >> Yeah. And isn't DHEA still banned by like WADA and the Olympic Committee because it's per potentially performance-enhancing? >> Yeah, and I think it's a controlled med in Canada, but it's over the counter here. It's very strange. Next is Deca. Um, also known as Nanderlone Danowit to the medical community. Where would you put this? It looks like our media guy already put it in a tier. >> A tier. >> If it's MP, I say A tier. I I don't know about that. There's not very many There's not very manyarmacies that use a phenyl propriate Esther for nandrolone. >> Yeah. And I don't think this is one that can be reliably sourced from a commercial source like you know can't just get it at CVS, Walgreens. [sighs] Uh, this one I would put it in a probably a C tier just because it is a bit tedious if you wanted to use this as a TRT alternative and do it right. >> Mhm. >> Um, and there's more things to think about um interactions with hair loss medications potentially the um larger impact on hematocrit. So there are some downsides here, but there are some pros as well and that it's probably a little bit more anabolic milligram per milligram, a little bit less androgenic. But since you have dutasteride, you don't necessarily need to move to a totally different androgen. You can just attenuate the downsides of the androgen you're already using. >> Yeah. Much more simple. That being said, Tom Plattz took it supposedly and that's why he has all his hair. In fact, I think that's what he said. Just do deca and then come off in the offseason. So does that mean we need to put it in a tier? H maybe a different time. But in all seriousness, I would say I do see the the higher quality compoundingies. When I do occasionally use it, I often use strive as a compounding pharmacy and they have I believe they compound nanderlone toate, but they do not compound nanderone phenyl proprianate. So I would not listen to uh media guy Cameron over here. I would use uh as high of a quality pharmacy as possible. That would be Nanderlone Canino8. Next is Oxanderone, which again looks like Cameron has already put this into the S tier. >> Yeah, he said if he could, he would actually put it above testosterone and cipionate. [laughter] >> Yeah. Is this for males or females? I guess we didn't specify that in the tier list. I was somewhat doing it for males. >> We can comment on both, I think. Yeah, it's it's surprisingly going to be quite similar. Some females can tolerate nanderlone and also they're already on estrogen, so not that huge of a deal. Again, uh testosterone cypionate plus dutasteride for both males and females. Almost always more benefits and less downsides and easier to do than nandrallone plus estradile for males and females. So, it's like it's a solution, but we already have a better solution to the problem. Yeah, certainly the testosterone is easier. If you're talking about a lowd dose injectable testosterone, say once a week or twice a week for women, you can measure that. Get a free androgen index, move the DHT down if you need to. Um, but there are some women who, you know, are less just the way that oxendrone interacts with the receptor, they're getting less androgenic symptoms from that. >> Very high SHBG women. >> Yeah, you do have to be careful. Um, I certainly wouldn't use the two together. >> Definitely not >> because then you're going to have a disproportionately high free testosterone and free DHT, which is um really going to increase the risk for masculineization. >> Y >> um and then for males um well I guess this applies to women too. Again, high SHPG, you can use that to um knock down the sex from a binoglobulin to decrease the liver's production of that protein so that you're not giving someone an unreasonable amount of testosterone. Like let's say their total has to be 2,000 to get them to a free testosterone of 15. Y >> it's I think in my mind much more reasonable to lower the SHBG2. even if it's like 40 or 50. Um, and maybe their total is 900,000. I think that's a lot more reasonable than the 2,000 because in patients that I've seen come into the clinic, even though the free is normal on paper, even when the total is running that high, there still seems to be some of the downstream negatives from testosterone. So, there's a little bit more to it than just free testosterone when you get to like an extreme circumstance like that. >> Yeah. So, I would say let's put Oxanderone down into B tier. Sorry, Cameron. >> Um, both for males and women. It's it's not it's not often that the upside outweighs the downside. It's certainly not something that I would add into every protocol because it's like what makes TRT TRT plus or what makes HRT HRT plus? >> What about as a heart medication? Uh I I don't think it's Yeah, it's not great >> even for lowering lipoprotein little A >> if well I wouldn't necessarily consider that a heart medication but um as a for it's just a benefit that it happens to have it happens to lower LP little A sometimes relatively precipitously especially if you have very high SHBG but that would be a side benefit there's a lot of small benefits to it but the downside of it is again that it often crushes SH HBG very low and then it makes me mirree androgen index quite high. >> Yeah. And when I think about that scenario, you know, if someone happens to have the high LPA and the high SHBG and we don't see it affect their HDL that much, you know, it's it's always going to have a little bit of a hit on the HDL unless there's a big lifestyle change with more exercise at the same time, >> then I think it it could be reasonable because we know a lot of bad things are associated with lipoprotein A. We don't necessarily bank on the HDL being as protective as we used to think it is. But the honest answer is we don't know if that trade-off is a positive, neutral, or negative right now. >> Yeah. So it, you know, it's kind of cringe to say, but a lot of people like to balance hormones. And oxendolone, one of the main benefits is it does help you balance your total and free estrogens and androgens. Um, and it also helps you um, you know, decrease overall total androgen load compared to like let's say if you're just on testosterone before, this could be as a male or a female and you keep increasing the dose to get a higher free testosterone, you're increasing the dose to get a higher free testosterone, you might be better off and you might actually be able to use less androgen. Not everybody's gonna like to hear that, but you might be able to use less um steadystate androgen if you add that in. >> Yeah, I see Cameron shaking his head. >> Yeah. That being said, you know, and last thing on this because I don't want to spend the whole time talking about it, is yes, these kind of like shorter half-life androgens. You can take them pre-workout and you can have better workouts, which is one of the benefits of any type of androgen for males and females. So, um, yes, if you happen to need it, that is a way that you can take it. >> A lot of benefits. Sure. We want to put it in B. >> B for benefits. >> B for benefits. >> Next is Primobolan. I don't know what that is. Is that methinolone ananthate? Is that the medical name for it? Um, this is known as Primo. And this is TRT+. So, basically, if you're not on this, your clinic is just holding you back. sarcasm. >> Yeah, I I don't know a lot about this in the sense that I haven't monitored patients taking it over long periods of time or prescribed it to anyone. With the Primobolan, I do worry about low estradile because it seems to function like an aromatase inhibitor. Um I worry about people if I guess there are a few selecties that maybe have this. You know, I've heard whispers of that. The only one that I know that makes it makes an oral capsule version which of course is not ideal. In fact, in my opinion the safest oral capsule. If this list was pure oral capsules, there is no troies, there's no nasal sprays, etc. Oxendrone would actually be the my prime choice. If I had to take a androgen that goes through my liver, first pass metabolism, etc. Yeah, that's the one that I would choose. But um yeah, I don't know of any sterile injectable say like um um ananthate version of the primable and >> from what I hear in you know the the bodybuilding community sourcing of this and master has been mixed up for a long time. Yeah. >> But now like people are having a hard time getting either one of those things. Mhm. >> So, uh, it's something I would probably put in a D tier. >> D, yeah, D tier. If we had high quality compoundingies or a commercial product that's specifically used in patients that have very high estradile and of course, you would decrease the testosterone to keep their total and load under control. I think it it likely does have a good safety profile, but yeah, just because of the current sphere or whatnot. I know there's some countries that have this available as a pharmaceutical medication. Wasn't it a Bayer medicine? >> Yeah, I think that's right. >> Yeah, like the ampules or whatnot. So, if that is still the case in some countries, then maybe it's a much higher tier. But yeah, unfortunately here we're going to have to put it in D. Next is haloestine, which I believe is the same thing as mint. >> Trevo, actually. Oh, Trim. Oh, Trenmbbolone is already up there in the S plus tier. >> That's the the manic tier. >> Yeah. So, I uh I don't have too much to say about this one. I would actually put this in F tier. >> Disagree. >> Yeah, I would put it in F tier from a health standpoint. I guess, you know, cosmetically the bodybuilders would say there's nothing like trenaloney sandwiches. >> Yeah. >> But it's probably one of the harshest. I do recall a patient that I saw a long time ago had ran out of their testosterone and they were basically taking trend replacement therapy >> and the labs were not good. >> Was this this sounds like the start of a more plates more dates story. [laughter] >> Uh it was a more dates more date more plates more dates clinic >> or not a clinic service that connects doctors and patients. >> That's right. Um at Merik. Interesting. But, you know, like I said, if patients come in, even though we put Trembbleone in Ftier, um, we are zero judgmental to anybody who takes Trembbleone. >> Yeah. It's great to have the honesty because that, um, leads me down a much easier diagnostic route. >> Definitely. And, you know, we've also had patients that are pro bodybuilders or pro strongman. And not just pro in that they have their pro card and they sell coaching, they're actually really good, if that makes sense. Not to throw shade on anybody else. Um, but if you, you know, we understand that some people like literally the world's strongest man and the open Olympia bodybuilder winner, they probably do have to take Tren in order to like win and make that paycheck for their family. So, just like if somebody has to I can't think of an example of someone who has to smoke cigarettes in order to do so, but >> not anymore. >> Cigarette smoking champion maybe if they have >> if you were the Marro man back in the day. >> Yeah. and to take care of his family, he would have to keep smoking cigarettes. Then you tell your doctor that. Uh or if you're like a champion beer drinker, like, "Hey doctor, I have to drink beer. Please make my health as good as possible for making me a champion tequila chugger beer drinker." And we will do so whether it is uh an androgen or whether it is alcohol. >> Yeah. I think of it like harm reduction. you know, there's tools in place for people who are addicted to opiates to help get them off of those things or to mitigate the negatives or if they take too much to reverse that. >> So, you know, again, with any substance people are putting in their body, some people, you know, they want to change. Some people they don't want to change. They want to try to minimize the damage and it's not something that's necessarily addressed very commonly outside of practices like ours. >> Yep. >> It's a a good summary. Well, next uh so we've had a lot of different kind of categories of androgens. Haloin. I think this is a testosterone derivative. I don't think it's a 19 nor. And I don't think it's a is it a DHT derivative or a testosterone? >> I want to say it's a DHT derivative. Um I don't know for sure, but I I would put it in C tier above D tier just because it does have some studies showing positive effects on sperm motility. >> Interesting. So intraesticular testosterone. Is this the same thing as mint? >> No. That's that's a trust trust altoone >> I believe. So >> trust alone is mint. Yeah. Haloestine uh what I know haloestine for is anger and rage. >> So it's the opposite of mint. Mint is your infertility androgen. This is your potentially fertility and again these studies >> say 50 years old. >> Some people take trust alone or mint for >> birth control. >> Birth control. Yes. Um actually successfully. This is not medical advice, but that's what I've heard through, you know, forums and Discord and whatnot. >> Yeah. And it was studied specifically for that. >> It has been um anyways, I would put Halo tested in D tier um because safety profile and long-term benefits is not significant. So C I kind of see as like halfway benefit, halfway detriment. So I still think that for most people halo testing is not a not as good of an option as even >> not even just for three months while you're trying for a baby. >> No. the time period you want to be very aggressive and emotional and full of rage. >> If you told me I had to take nothing and be hypogonatal through fertility or just haloestine, I would probably take halo testin and I bet I would tolerate it quite well. I don't think I would have anger or rage. >> Stay tuned for our next episode. >> I have to now I have to try it basically. Um next is that equipoise EQ. So, equipoise, I always think of ecquin horse horses and now I guess everybody's on EQ uh because there's no more masterone or primobolan. Um yeah, I would probably put this in D tier. Um >> I guess it's >> kind of along the same primolan. >> Less bad than trenbolone, but probably more bad than primobalone. So, I give like a D minus. Yeah, some people I think David de Mosquita thinks that Primo and EQ are um like roughly equitable when it comes to upside versus downside. >> I think the EQ just has a stronger effect on red blood cell count. >> Yeah. >> So thinking of blood viscosity whereas the primabolin maybe not. >> Yeah, that's true. Um but yeah, if I had to take something um and assuming that like let's say they were both commercial product, let's say Fizer, actually not Fizer because some people won't like it. Let's say that u >> what's a drug company with a really good Yeah. Novartis has a decent reputation. >> Yeah. Um they made uh pharmaceutical like brand name methanol and anths also equipoise and um you know I had to take one. I I would choose the primabolan, not the not the >> Yeah. >> Yep. So, we can put them both in D and go to the next one, which is uh Dball, which I think we'll also probably end up putting in the D tier. I'm not sure what the medical use would be. I think historically this was used as like a Dball kickstarter, which I've I've [clears throat] never done, but uh >> wouldn't the medical use just be a good pump? [sighs] I I Why wouldn't you just take Tedalophil or like Gorilla Nitric and get some crazy >> pumps? I guess certain people want a little more they have a more of an appetite for risk. They want a little bit more um danger in their lives. >> Yeah. >> So, we put it in the D category for danger. >> But seeing DHEA stacked next to all these kind of makes me think I should put DHEA in the C. >> DHA to C or Yeah. move the DHEA up to C >> because people will comment how you literally think DHEA is as bad as Dball. >> Yeah, I think DHEA is great and I I think it's good that is over the counter. Do you think any of these other androgens should be over the counter? >> Uh I'm generally pro like people being able to make medical decisions, but this is something that people could abuse. you know, it's it's not going to potentially instantly kill them like something like a narcotic would >> alcohol. >> But yeah, I I would uh I would be in favor of testosterone being over the counter >> up to certain doses, dude. 25 migs per millig per mill. >> You're not going to be able to really like enforce that. I mean, if you make it a low concentration, I guess like people are just going to inject more oil to get a larger dose. Um, but even if you put a restriction on the quantity you can buy, like the market will find a way to get it into the hands of people that want it. >> That's true. Yeah. Maybe a 21 plus thing or maybe an 18 plus thing. >> Alcohol and testosterone and DHEA. >> You just have to get it with your inclinion to maintain your fertility, which will not work on injectable testosterone. That's funny. >> Like some clinics claim. >> Yeah. So, I I think that's a reasonable approach. And another benefit of it being over-thecounter is when people seek out uh doctor or healthcare advice, they're literally doing so just for the advice. >> It's compounded with hCG. >> Mhm. >> But then it has to be refrigerated. Anyways, uh next is Winstrol, which is stenosol, which I believe has only been studied in reayods and a few other things. But isn't this the one that can very quickly cause liver angiomas? >> This is the one you use to test your androgen sensitivity. >> And that that's the old way. >> So you could get a three pill blister pack. >> Yeah. >> Um it's very good if you want to lose hair from what I read and understand. It's a DHT derivative. >> This what Ben Johnson took, I believe. >> Um, sprinters would take this. >> Sprinters will take it. >> Yeah. There were people in um like small town like high school track using what was believed to be Windstrol >> to run faster at their track meets. >> Interesting. You think I could get back to 49 second 400 meter if I needed to do like an androgen sensitivity test because I definitely don't know my CAG repeat number. >> Yeah. Just to make sure there's confluence between the results there. >> Yeah, exactly. It's for science. Has there ever been a case study comparing CAG repeat numbers to Sonosol SHBG? >> I feel like I'm going to put this in the F tier. >> Let's put it in F. And let's put RAD 140 in F as well. >> Is that a song? >> Does that say the Umbrella Corporation there? >> Yeah, it's from uh what is that movie? >> Uh >> Blackbeard. >> No. No, >> it's the Resident Evil. >> Yes, that's right. Yeah, I could not think of that. >> That's what they injected in the bunnies to make them those monsters in in Resident Evil. But RAD 140, you know, if I'm going to choose this arm, it's going to be ostrain, which is MK2866, which is an OOSAR, or Ligandrol, which is LGD 4033, which I put in Dtier. There is human studies on this, and there is probably going to be some clinical use at some point. I would give zero out of 10 for the Hellups, whatever that brand is. Is that Hell Labs? >> Hell Labs. Yeah, I will never take anything from Hell Labs now. Heaven Labs. >> I might take something from >> I would I would bump Enobosarm up to C, but not at the doses you're going to see in the over the counter stuff. I would say, you know, that 3 milligram per day dose that is used in the clinical studies and older adults sarcopenia. looks promising. You know, it's it's not going to be a, you know, miracle for anyone, but I think it has enough promise for promoting physical function that I' I'd give it a C. >> Yeah. Not LG, not Landrol, though. So, we can put Landrol back in D. Osterine, which we don't have on the list, but >> Oh, you're >> People can just Yeah, they can imagine ostine, which is anobosarm in C. >> Finasteride and dutasteride are next. So, we're going to put both of those in F, right? >> Is this a bundle? Like if you you're taking them both together >> separate >> separate separately I would give finasteride a C >> I'd give it a D >> for the average person I would give finasteride an F for a lot of people. >> Dutasteride I would give >> uh let's do an let's do an A. >> Yeah. Dutasteride an A at the right dose. This is me dosing it. It's our tier list. So once a week dutasteride, even for the average person, I would give an A. And once a once daily finasteride for your average low tea individual, I'd probably give a D. And a lot of people that takeide either have high natural testosterone or are on HRT. >> Yeah. So if let's say the male population went on once per week dutastasteride at age 25, what percentage of male pattern baldness do you think that would prevent? >> Um trick question. It depends on their age. So instead of >> So I said they start at age 25. >> At age 20 Well at age 25 it would prevent >> you just put everybody on you. So, well, I don't think it would actually prevent a huge amount, but people would become bald 20 years after they normally would or 15. So, if you're going to become like let's say if you weren't on it, you were going to become bald at 40. Instead, you were going to become relatively bald at 55s. >> Yeah. So, you think that even if this is say lowering DHT by 70%. that that's not enough to slow the progression like to where it's not cosmetically noticeable by people's 50s, 60s,7s. >> It is for a couple decades, but the problem with a once a week dose is it has a dose to been a halflife. So after three or four days, more than half the dutestasteride is likely gone. So although you're if you check your DHT two days after your first dose, it's going to be significantly suppressed. But if you check it 6 days after, kind of get a trough of some sort. Um, I I would say you would be surprised at how high your DHT is 6 days after a single dose of >> Yeah, I I'd be a little bit more bullish on that. You know, I think there's some people that are going to have aggressive hair loss. It's not going to address. >> But you start young, right? 25, that's when people get the highest potential for regrowth. Let's say >> true. Close to half of those people are getting some regrowth. And you know, 80 or 90% of people don't lose hair over, you know, at least that first year, probably the first decade. >> You know, I'd say you'd probably prevent, yeah, probably about half of balding. Like for some people, I think that would be enough to maintain their hair throughout their entire adult life until things like their, you know, IGF-1, growth hormone, estradi levels all kind of drop down. >> Yeah. And blood flow to the scalp is worse. >> Yeah. Um I would I would also add to my opinion the caveat if you dose two times a week or three times a week the efficacy is significantly better. There was a study I believe out of Japan or Korea at the dose of 0.2 milligrams per day and that dose looked quite good and obviously that would equal 1.4 milligrams per week. >> Yeah I think even.1 milligram per day was a little bit above like what finasteridees efficacy was. So, you know, milligram per milligram probably at least 10 times better or more potent. >> Yeah. >> And if we put dutasteride and finasteride together as a bundle, for myself personally, I would put that in the S tier. But where would you put this for the general population? >> For the general population, again, the reason why I do tastasteride once a week is for the general population. There's going to be a lot of people that don't have quite optimal tea levels. And also they're going to forget they're on dutasteride and then want to go into a fertility phase and having a little bit of that extra DHT and testicular testosterone. They're going to be glad they're on once a week instead of three times a week because three times a week is going to be around. It just requires more planning. And the same thing with finasteride. If they forget to take their dutasteride, they might start feeling strange on just finasteride. So you are playing with fire a bit more. So I would keep it an A tier. But um most people that are on both tutasteride and finasteride again because you have that more even isoenzyme inhibition of all three um it is much uh and maybe it's a little bit clickbait but that's another reason to leave in a tier is so we will see the finasteride in a tier. Um, but yeah, one reason that I might be tempted to move it down and a lot of my patients end up liking just dudastasteride without finasteride is a lot of people just don't have want to worry about the mental stress of being on finasteride. Like literally just a thought I am taking finasteride which so many of my friends have said had side effects or so many of my internet friends if that's a thing have said they have side effects. That is a real downside. >> Yeah. I mean, you definitely can go read more scary things about a finasteride online than you can about dutasteride. >> Um, and that logic would probably hold up for most of these compounds, right? You can go read more scary things about trimbalone than you can about testosterone online as well. >> So, Cameron, please leave finasteride in the D tier or even like F to D tier, but for the thumbnail, leave it in A tier. That'll that'll be good. Um, I guess that covers it for [snorts] all of our androgens today. We did, I guess one that we did not discuss, let's add this as a bonus, is DHT, like injectable DHT and anth DHT topical cream, which is available in many countries actually, just not the United States. Um, I would say there is some clinical use for this in my opinion actually probably mostly in pediatrics and that's one thing that I do practice. I do see kids that come in and see me locally and I see them for both specialty medicine and primary care and um I think that there there's the >> andim >> topical DHT. I think that there is a I think this is very underutilized for disorders of um sexual and pubertal development. Um but a lot of people kind of want to use it off label and there's of course a lot of downsides to just taking DHT. I often do kind of jokingly but also seriously call it a trash hormone. I'd say I'm 50% sarcastic when I call it a trash hormone. So, we can leave it in a C tier. Yeah, I could see it in C tier in the use case since I don't see pediatrics would be, you know, maybe someone uses it once in a while as a topical for libido boost. But >> obviously having to be very careful with transference for this because that's going to be a lot bigger deal than transference from even a testosterone cream. Yep. >> Which we also didn't have on here. >> Was it a pun when you said a bigger deal because what vigorous Steve uses it for? >> Um I'm not aware. >> People can look up his video. He uses it topically uh for a bigger flaccid state. [snorts] >> Interesting. >> That's what Yep. Vigorous Steve uses it for. Today Phil will do the same thing for those wondering for way less downside if you care. I think most I don't know maybe some people do. I'm not sure what like single people or zoomers do these days. [laughter] And with that, I think that's probably >> I'm glad to that I'm not part of that crowd. >> Yeah, me too. Anyways, yeah, if people do have androgens that they want to add or if they like this format, uh please let us know in the comments. Um and as always, thank you for your time and may God bless you with health and happiness.
