# BPC-157 Peptide: Experts Explain What You Need to Know

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

Welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast. We are starting a new series. It is our just the basics series on peptides. This time, not testosterone. So, to kick us off, I'm going to talk about BPC157 uh with Dr. Kyle Gillette. We're going to answer all the common questions about it and talk a bit about how it works, uh some anecdotes, and we're going to try to fit all that in five to 10 minutes. We'll see what happens. One of my favorite peptides, as a refresher, peptides are just strings of amino acids, basically small proteins between two and several dozen amino acids. Um, and a peptide is just like a medication. So, when people ask, "Do I like peptides?" It's kind of like asking, "Do you like medications?" or "Do you like supplements?" They each have their own unique benefits and risks, and BPC-157 is no different. Um, I do like it a lot. It's one of my favorite peptides for a couple reasons. One, it does have human clinical study despite what other people will tell you. And two, it's derived from a bioididentical protein that's found in gastric juice, I believe, which is a gastric pentadecoic peptide, which is u, you know, the same thing as GPC-157, but we know it as BPC-157, and we basically call it body protective compound because that's kind of what it does. Yeah. Now, I don't think it could ever really have that name as an actual drug because they don't let you name it like cool things or like name about what it does. >> They used to >> Well, [laughter] yeah, that got changed. But BPC, uh, super interesting. It's something that we both have personally used and had good results and seemingly no downsides. But like you said, there's human study, one human study that's been done at least here in the US and another one that's supposed to be happening. And when we can say more about that, we will. Um, but for now, it's it's basically in the planning stage and they're looking at what population to treat. But the study that I think got BPC its popularity was uh going back to the rats, right? So muscularkeeletal, that's the reason people are taking it for injuries, um, speeding up surgical healing. >> Um, and here's the very first photo, right? So, >> um, if you haven't dissected, you know, mice or rats, this may not look like much to you. >> Yep. But basically what you're seeing here is they chopped the quadriceps and the quadriceps tendon off the muscle basically and then >> one group got BPC uh orally in drinking water. So what does that say to people who say oh BPC doesn't work orally? >> It does. >> Yeah. It is seemingly orally bioavailable because can survive the gastric acid in the stomach. The stomach acid. >> It's literally where it came from. >> Yeah. Makes a lot of sense. Um so I always like to point that out. Um, and in the control mouse, uh, the junction, like the tendonous junction. Hey, I know somebody that tore their myinis junction. >> Yeah, you did. They're just on BPC instead of that pec surgery. >> Yeah, I didn't want to be in the control group for either, so I didn't pick the sham surgery and I didn't pick the placebo BPC7. >> Good call. Anyways, um you know, like with a lot of other pharmaceutical compounds, whether it's a u you know, a supplement or a medication is kind of debatable with BPC57. We'd like to prescribe it toarmacies certainly, but you know, given that it looked pretty good in this, we studied it in humans next um with the knee. >> Yeah. place out of uh Florida I believe and um this is a single arm trial so it wasn't randomized wasn't placebo but I think it was more than half of the patients reported some improvement in their their knee function and >> uh they did intraarticular injections which I think is kind of interesting >> yeah I assume that they were kind of looking at PRP studies where they look at lucasite rich versus lucasite poor PRP and a lot of times I use lucasite poor PRP intraarticularly which has veg F in it veg F is vast vascular endothelial growth factor. Basically, it upregulates blood flow to areas that don't have great blood flow. Makes a lot of sense for the knee. And BPC157 upregulates FedEF. So, I I do kind of think of as BPC and PRP as similar. But, uh there's a reason why we don't use it intraarticularly because there's a risk of infection of the joint known as septic arthritis. And given that it's orally bioavailable and also very bioavailable if you inject it. I do think there's a bit of an extra local benefit. Joe Rogan says BPC57 definitely works better locally. Um and and there's even a study on safety and it wasn't in humans, but the safety study was in mammals, dogs, and mice. And yeah, there's it literally talks about how there was zero side effects seen irregardless of dope. If I'm not, then we're doing some work. And >> have you been able to increase the mobility of your sh? >> Dude, my my Yes. And my shoulder was [ __ ] before and he brought it back. Him and him and this guy Kyle were like, don't do surgery. like they they were like once you do surgery you're [ __ ] and so let's try to work this thing out by building muscle around it getting mobility into the joint and like they brought >> so I guess depending on what he says you can think it's less likely or more likely anyways I think it does work a bit more locally and it did seem to help those patients >> yeah and I mean to put a percentage on it is kind of tricky um obviously in in these patients which were rats it worked quite well in the drinking water and um this This is another set of photos sort of um outlining the contraure um that occurred in the the non-union or the non-healing. Um and then you you basically have this normal limb like looking at E and F being different there. >> Yeah. And in F what's that thing hanging down in the middle there? >> I don't know. Is it some sort of tumor? >> Yeah, it looks like it got a lot bigger on those sides. So [laughter] um yeah, interestingly looks like the uh the testes are significantly larger in the treatment group as well. So, um, >> yeah. Now, we can't say this is correlation or causation because I don't think they weighed the testes before putting the rats on BPC. >> Um, but >> they picked the rats with significantly more gonatal hypertrophy to put it all on. >> That's how you randomize any study, right? >> Yeah. Anyways, u in all seriousness, um, you know, just because something is studied in animals doesn't necessarily mean um it it usually means that you cannot directly clinically apply that. But one of the unique things with BPC and there is another study I think was it out of South America? So there's been a couple small kind of like non-randomized non-controlled group studies on BPC but basically there's uh probably millions of case studies at this point. Jim Laval, a pharmacist who we've on the podcast basically said they need to take those cases into account as well. And plus it's a bio identical hormone fragment. So it's literally isolated from gastric juice. So, just like in females that we give testosterone, although it's not FDA approved, it comes from the body. It's bio identical. I think bio identical peptides have a strong case for clinical use just based off of replacing what's naturally in the body. >> Yeah. And I feel like they have a pretty good safety profile. You know, maybe I wouldn't give them I definitely wouldn't give them to someone with uh active cancer or at a high risk of cancer who's behind on their screenings and so forth. And the other thing I think about um and I think you're the first person that sort of brought this to my attention is like that's basically the opposite of avasten >> right which you're giving for various retinopathy complications of the eye uh basically an anti-veg but you're giving this prov signal um systemically which I mean the eye does have a blood supply and you're probably going to >> I don't want to say probably possibly going to aggravate that a little bit if you systemically increase veg off. >> Yeah. So if you're, you know, an active diabetic or have had diabetic retinopathy, um, or you're just at increased risk of, um, excess VEGF signaling in general, whether it's in the eye or throughout the body, it's avastin's actually used for lots of metastatic cancers, then you don't want to upregulate VEGF throughout the body. And people will say, well, there's no study proving that BPC is not good for cancer. I have seen a patient with metastatic cancer that was on BPC and unknowingly and that was having a bad metastatic cancer flare. So u this was probably five years ago at this point. Fortunately you and I have had you know more than half a decade of experience and I'm helping uh more plates more dates Derek start his clinic. You >> this is a situation where you can deprescribe because to be clear you're not the person that >> I was not prescribing. He was taking this from a research chemical website >> and he came into clinic. Again, this is more than 5 years ago and of course stopped it. >> Um, but you know, I see a lot of clinicians and people interested in peptides, which I love. I think just like other hormones, it makes sense to replace things that are in the body and be as natural as possible. But there's always an upside and a downside. Another small downside is it probably makes things like cherry angiomas and little vascular malf forations in the skin and probably in your body too slightly worse. So let's say you have a big arteria venus malf for your gut, it would probably make that worse. >> Yeah, you [snorts] would assume it would grow. Um, again, we don't know a lot of these things for sure because of the limited clinical studies, but there is a lot of data. The anecdata as I think maybe had referred to it initially. >> Yes. >> Yeah. The anecdata are still data. >> Potential side effects of BPC57 would be theoretically tumor growth um worsening uh retinopathy of the eye or other ocular complications. Worsened cherry angiomas or other types of angiomas or arteria venous malfforms. This could be in the skin or systemically it could even be in the blood vessels of the brain. Um and then if someone has say an angioma or hemangioma in the liver or the spine which is not unusual then especially if it's growing they probably don't want to um overuse BPC57 those various side effects and there might be more as well but um it is something that we do not think people should be on indefinitely. It should be used for a short duration of time. >> Yeah. And a couple things I've seen anecdotally as side effects that don't make a lot of sense or I don't know why they happen is um fluid retention, right? Which maybe that's people are injured, they're not moving as much and they notice, oh, I've got a little bit more of a, you know, a sock line at the end of the day, that sort of thing. Or maybe there is something there. Um and the other I had one patient who had sort of just like a um um what's the word I'm looking for? just a sort of unpleasant feeling like just the opposite of a sense of well-being while taking it. He just felt like his mood had changed. And again, that's hard to say. Was this the compound? Was this a coincidence? Uh but in any case, you discontinued the medication and it resolved, went back to baseline. >> What are some upsides or the best use cases for PPC157? Yeah, I think for uh connective tissue injuries, so ligaments, tendons, especially in the case of like a rupture um or something where a surgical repair is needed, that's sort of the root of where it was studied. I think that can make a lot of sense. >> Um and I've seen some improvements in in gut health. Um you know, particularly using the oral BPC 157. >> So you certainly have to kind of balance that if you're looking at like what is gut health, right? If you're talking about someone that has uncontrolled inflammation and ulcerative colitis and a high risk of colon cancer, you have to kind of weigh the pros and cons there and make sure people are up to date on screenings. Whereas if you know someone has some occasional, you know, um bloating and things that you haven't been able to sort out like from a a root cause. >> Um sometimes a course of BPC I feel like can reset the gut and then you can build back and incorporate some things that will promote long-term gut health because BPC is not the solution for long-term gut health. Sometimes it can, you know, put out the fire that's going on there and then you can sort of rebuild and get a a solid gut. >> How about sourcing? Where to get it? Is this where we promote our business or website selling peptides? >> That's right. My the URL is trust me broeptides.com. Someone's probably going to buy that now and make it a thing. So, to be clear, that is a joke. Um, but >> we don't make any money off peptides. We do use them in practice and we prescribe them. And there are some over-the-c counter peptides that you can get like creatine is actually an overthe-c counter peptide. >> Yeah. So, prescriptions, you know, that's the the very best in terms of quality and rigorous testing and making sure you don't have contaminants there. Um, the injectable version, I would only use a prescription. >> The oral version, you know, >> you might be able to consider using that from not a research chemical site, but it's almost >> soft versions, chewable versions. It's almost like a sports supplement at this point, right? It's it's marketed as um or it's actually liposal and marketed for better absorption, which is probably the case. >> Um so there are some places like that. So I I wouldn't buy it from a research chemical site. >> Definitely. >> But there are some places that sell it orally um sort of in this gray area as a supplement. >> Um and you know, these are reputable companies with reputable people behind them. Um, yeah, you don't really see people behind the research chemical sites, right? They're not showing their face saying, "Hey, this is my company, but they have a lot of affiliates showing face saying,"Hey, use my code." >> Yeah. The only two companies, at least that I know of now, that I would trust for some over-the-counter peptides. For example, um, some GHK copper peptide would be, uh, annular peptides, which is annular.com, and Metabolic Elite, which is Jim Laval's company. >> Yeah. and we can link to those in the comments. >> We don't have we don't have a discount code, but there's discount codes out there so you can find them though. In general, interestingly, um the injectable peptides like the ones that we prescribe toarmacies per dose because some of them have some overlap like BPC 157 are actually cheaper if you get it prescribed than if you buy it from the website if your clinic does not upcharge. So, that's the the last thing I'd leave with people for sourcing. Yeah, I think that's a great takeaway that's going to have some people doing some mental math and trying to figure out, am I getting ripped off? >> Yeah. Anyways, that's all we need to say about that. If people have other questions about BPC157 or other peptides, we do plan to continue this series. But I hope that this is kind of like a good basic overview of BPC157. >> Yep. As always, thank you for your time. Thank you for listening. May God bless you with health and happiness.
