# Lose weight without exercise?

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

What if you could not work out, not worry about what you eat, eat whatever you want, lose 15 pounds, and feel better about yourself. >> Seems too good to be true. I don't think that's possible even with GLP1s. >> Well, you must not be a GLP1 influencer. a GLP-1 influencer. Does that mean an in an influencer that says to lift weights and eat high protein and specifically not mention that she's on a GLP1 and then being a little bit too much and lose some facial fat? >> Well, let's read this testimonial. Step one, denied Oimpic, not obese. Joined Start Willow 5 minutes sunglasses emoji. >> Cool emoji. Step three, tiny simaglutide dose. Six weeks calendar emoji. Step four, ate whatever I wanted. No gym pig emoji. >> Pig emoji. She's saying gym bros or pigs. >> I think maybe she meant to put a rat there. >> Gym rat. >> Yeah, I see. >> Step five, lost 15 pounds, felt amazing. Step six, my brain exploded. Dead. Oh, wish I'd known sooner. side effects. Yeah. Does she gain 15 pounds right after the 6 weeks is over? >> You do not lose 15 pounds in 6 weeks on a normal starting dose of simaglutide. >> Yeah, it's a little wild. >> At least she's honest. most influencers who are on it. You know, when we were talking with Jim Lavell, peptide expert, pharmacist, well-known uh teacher in the peptide and functional medicine space, he agreed that between a third and a half of all overweight adults have tried a GLP-1. This person would be in the category of someone who is not overweight or obese, but took a GLP-1 anyway. Hey, uh, you know, it looks pretty bad from what she posts here, but at least she's not taking a research chemical from a research chemical website, and at least she got it prescribed, and at least she's honest about it. Most fake natty influencers just talk about how hard they train all the time, and they're skinny, but they like to lift weights. Yeah, I suppose at best you could say the company is practicing harm reduction because they say people are going to take it regardless if it's prescribed or not, but you can only stretch that so far. >> Yeah, >> I think they're in it for some money as well. >> Yeah. Why would you think that? >> It's just the way the business operates. >> Maybe we should do some tests. I mean, I suppose we could see what their cost is for a GLP1 and we would pretty well know what their margins are there. >> Yeah, >> but I'm sure their cost is low. >> I did take their quiz to see if I was a candidate for a GLP1, someone who actually is overweight. >> Okay, that seems reasonable. >> So, I put in I'm a little bit heavier than this, but 190 is a a starting weight. My goal weight is to get down to a healthy lean 95 pounds and feel better about myself. >> And just like a lot of radio advertisements, we will get you to your goal weight or your money back. I hear that >> so >> often. >> I figure a tiny dose of some glutide for six weeks will get me here. >> Yeah. >> Um so then they ask, you know, some good things like what benefits would you like to see? And um they didn't have something there about feeling better about myself. So, I just put I don't want any specific benefits >> other than shredded glutes. >> Just saying the number on the scale is what does it for me. >> Yeah. >> And then they noise. Where's food noise on that? >> Um, have I struggled or have I have I tried any of these methods before? And I said, "No, I've never tried to lose any weight." >> And then they asked if I've heard of GLP ones. And I took this twice. I actually put yes and no. And I got the same answer each time, which is >> they can help me. >> Wow. Well, sounds like they're going to prescribe you a GLP1. >> Get ready for 95B James on the Gillette Health podcast. >> All right. Wow. Uh I don't think that's even possible, but uh yeah, I mean, obviously they they would probably have an hourong visit with a health care provider before you're prescribed. healthcare provider visit mentioned in >> if it was it was only five minutes >> classes emoji. >> How do you get the more experienced provider? Do you like is there a place to fill in your medical history and say you have a history of anorexia? Is there a place to put in that you're depressed and have a history of um self harm ideation? Is there a place to put in uh hey I'm a biohacker and I'm very knowledgeable and I listen to a lot of more place more dates >> and if I if my medical knowledge about GLP1s is better than the providers I'm going to go to a different clinic. >> Yeah. Or if I'm a biohacker equally as knowledgeable and I tell them I don't want you guys' simlutide or trespide. I want you guys to prescribe me retatride. Are you really in the business of harm reduction or not? >> If you're willing to avoid retatriide, then perhaps so because it has more unknown harms. But in all seriousness, I do wonder if that very last question there, if you answer yes, you've heard of GLP1s. Maybe they do give you a less experienced provider. Or does that mean they give you a more experienced provider because you're more likely to ask questions? If you say no, you're just gonna shut up and then they can give you a brand new NP fresh out of NP school that doesn't know anything about GLP1s. >> Yeah, it's possible. We don't really know how their algorithm is set up. I' I'd be curious if >> probably similar to Lily Direct. >> We could do a secret shopper GLP1 study and you know have several people do this that have contradications or you could make it worst case scenario. Someone has every single contradication. Let's say they're anorexic, they have a history of pancreatitis, um they have gall stones, and they also have a family history of medularary cell thyroid carcinoma and multiple endocrine neoplasia. So you you put that in the medical forms and you see how many clinics they're able to actually get a GLP1 prescribed from. >> Yeah, probably. >> A couple at least. Yeah, I'm sure they won't get it from Lily direct, but what if you put in your form that you have a history of a reaction to, let's say you have a reaction to retatriotide, but um not simaglutide. Will they still give you tepatide? >> Lily Direct's the only one that's going to know what that is other than Gillette health. >> Maybe they will. >> Like retatrite, huh? Doesn't show up in the interaction checker. Guess you're good. Yeah, maybe they'll say that because the GIP activity, you're not a candidate for THRS appetite either. >> Yeah, it's hard to say which component would have caused the reaction and and what the reaction is, right? Is it nausea and vomiting? >> It's kind of expected. >> Nasoparangitis, I got a cold. um which interestingly is a like a a minimally significant reaction. But maybe this just means uh nothing and they're just trying to uh you know if you say yes, you've heard of GLP1s, they maybe book more time. They book you seven minutes instead of five minutes on your in on your doctor call. >> I think it's just all paths lead to the same end. So you take the quiz, it makes it feel like it's personalized to you. They hope you don't take it more than one time because you're going to get the same answer. >> Yeah. Well, now that um you know, we've been meanies and have dumpstered cookie cutter GLP-1 clinics, which there is a gazillion of, even the clinics that say they're not a cookie cutter GLP-1 clinic, they're still cookie cutter GLP1 clinics. >> Maybe we could give people some actionable takeaways, like a a top list of what people should know when they hop on a GLP1. Like number one, you know, what are the downsides? What's the worst thing that could happen? And I suppose for any medication, it's the case, but you could die. >> Yep. >> But there are some news headlines. You'll see some serious health complications. You have, >> you know, gastroparesis, paralyzing your digestive system, you know, your food is not moving through, you're throwing up. >> Uh pancreatitis is not incredibly rare. You know, it's uncommon, but it does happen. And people should kind of go into it expecting to feel at least nauseous and have some GI upset. >> I think those would be kind of the the downsides to think of. I mean, I sort of teased >> this rarely. Yeah. >> Yeah. And that's been shown with the simaglutide. So, I don't want to get too nuanced and down too many rabbit holes here, but serious side effects can occur. >> Know about them and ask about them. And if your healthcare provider says, "Oh, you don't need to worry about them." Then maybe you find another healthcare provider. Maybe they're blind because they took some of glutide and now they can't see the data. >> Yeah. Um, next would be knowing about the benefits specifically in your case. So, in the case of your quiz there, you filled out, I'm not interested in any significant benefit, but there's certainly benefits other than those like beta cell preservation, cognitive benefits that are not listed in that list. And then another risk would be theoretical tumor growth risks. So people that don't need them especially taking retatriotide that can basically increase the amount of activation of glucagon receptors that is a way like if we give people glucagon and we give people GLP-1s that can increase growth hormone and IGF-1. >> Yeah. Yeah. So you know cancer risk hasn't been conclusively shown. Thyroid is the first axis I suppose starting to show maybe a signal. >> Yep. got some studies that say yes. You've got one study that says no, there's no association. >> Um, but >> would would it be safe to say it probably does not cause new tumors in those not at an increased risk, but for those that do have active cancers, if it increases growth hormone and IGF-1 enough, it probably does grow it slightly faster. >> Yeah, I think you could say that. And you would weigh the balance of how much does reducing your area under the curve, exposure to insulin >> versus increasing the growth hormone have an effect? and we don't know the answer there. >> Yeah. So, in your case, improving your fasting insulin of three or whatever it is is probably not that important. The next one would be most people don't need lifelong GLP1s. Although clinics love to get you hooked on them, just like the dopick documentary. Uh we are still working on that ozick documentary in the future. Most people can get off after a while. And yes, diet and exercise and sleep are important. >> Yeah. So, if you taper off your GLP1 the way the pharma studies are set up, you're probably going to have a rebound, go from max dose to zero. If you taper off the way people do in the real world, even if you're not at an individualized medicine clinic, >> then I think it was between 50 and 60% of people maintain significant weight loss, which is more than 10% of body weight. >> Yeah. quite good because compared to a regular diet that has been studied um I believe less than 5% of them keep it off after six months or a year or some interval. Mhm. >> The last thing to know is more pragmatic, not as much related to health other than your mental health and your wallet health is almost every other place that is advertising GLP1s, actually every single place except for our clinic that I know of, every one of them makes significant margin and profit off of their GLP1 prescribing. And they're just unconsciously or subconsciously biased to prescribe them more. If your insurance doesn't cover it, and often it does, but if your insurance doesn't cover it, then somewhere between maybe 10 and $15, um $5 a week if you're on a really low dose, $20 if you're on a a kind of medium dose for a lot of our patients. Um that's what you'd expect. So, I' I'd say it's safe to say >> wholesale, not including the shipping and depending on what pharmacies are in your state. You know, if someone is making if your shots are $100 a week, >> right? Yeah. It's cheaper than Lily Direct, but they're making a significant margin because milligram per milligram, it's probably what, a third of the cost of Lily Direct for compounded. >> So, if company's charging you 80 or 90% of what Lily Direct does, they're pocketing the rest of that. >> Yeah. for 90 plus percent of my patients, they don't pay more than about $20 per week, even if they're on a medium dose of a GLP1. So, keep all those things in mind. Hopefully, that gives people some actionable takeaways other than there's still cookie cutter clinics out there that will give GLP1s to pretty much anyone. >> Yeah. So, let us know your experience in the comments with various GLP-1 clinics or with your primary care provider or if you've had a good experience with us with your GLP-1. Um, because there are powerful tools and they can be, you know, short-term, medium-term, long-term depending on each individual's needs. But, you know, I think the biggest takeaway and I we say this all the time is that people don't need to be on these forever in the majority of cases. >> Yep. And that's very counter to what you hear from people who have an interest in keeping you on the medications long term. >> Let us know your horror story and let us know your huge triumph when it comes to your or your family members past use of AGLP1 medication. If you want us to include some of those comments in the documentary of just people who have had past experience, feel free to denote so. And as always, thank you for your time and may God bless you with health and happiness.
