# Doctor ranks his favorite GLP-1's

*Gillett Health*

## Transcript

I'd say there's probably a 5% chance that it comes out that there's some terrible side effect you get with this that you don't get with the other GLP ones. >> Yeah, I think right now I'd put it in the F tier just because it's not FDA approved. You know, the bare case is that it's basically like taking three meds at once, so your side effect risk is higher. >> Welcome back to the Gillette Health podcast where we give you tools to develop a balanced approach for health. We are back with another tier list. >> That's right. This time on the chopping block are GLP1s. So, some of them are out and have been out for a long time. Some of them are up and coming that we think are likely to become approved. So, we're going to go through them and maybe it's the first time we've mentioned this on the podcast. We're going to talk about >> retatride. This is something patients and people have been asking us about. all over the place. So, we're going to talk a little bit about it. >> Yeah. Um I guess we could start with retatri just to get off hot and maybe ruffle some feathers, but >> let's do that. >> Yeah. If people are not aware, retatriide is not yet FD approved. And basically, it is a triple agonist. So, yes, it's GLP-1 and GIP like Tzepide, but it's also an agonist at the glucagon receptor. The same glucagon receptor. If you take an injection of glucagon, I've prescribed this before for something called a growth hormone stimulation test, you generally need two of them to prove that you have growth hormone deficiency because growth hormone goes up and down a lot and glucagon can make you make a lot of it. So presumably if you are binding this receptor a lot, you could have some of the same side effects that you get with growth hormone treatment. >> Yeah. I mean the GLP1s are technically growth hormone releasing peptides. It's going to vary from person to person and a lot of people see their >> IGF-1 go up on simaglutide in particular and and part of that is their liver is becoming healthier. Um but yeah, if you have a triple agonist then like excess growth hormone becomes a potential concern and I guess the context of ranking these is um is this a good thing for someone with obesity or diabetes to take today? >> Same thing for our anabolic steroid tier list. So all the anabolic steroids that you know you can't get at a pharmacy that you would just get you know underground to do a steroid cycle, we we rank those extremely low partly because it's fun to put the thumbnail with people's favorite anabolic steroids in the bottom of the tier list. And the same thing kind of applies for this tier list as well. It's not yet FDA approved. We know it works because the efficacy data is good, but phase three clinical trials are not good. And I'd say there's probably a 5% chance that it comes out that there's some terrible side effect you get with this that you don't get with the other GLP ones. >> Yeah, I think right now I'd put it in the F tier just because it's not FDA approved. You know, the bare case is that it's basically like taking three meds at once, so your side effect risk is higher. The bullish case for it is that you take and squint and kind of do some mental gymnastics around the data that's out there. The glucagon receptor agonism doesn't seem to be all that catabolic. Maybe people are losing a higher percentage of weight before they see large lean body mass losses. We'll put >> sort of all of the links to these things in uh the description. I think that's unlikely because they have not measured yet or at least publicly reported lean body mass loss and total mass loss yet. >> So it's really hard to make anything of the data. >> Yeah. And maybe people listening will think that our opinions on this are retatted. But uh I wouldn't be surprised if in two years we are using retatriotide more than we do tepatide clinically. But again you know uh we have to practice medicine current day from when we are seeing patients today. So that is how we are making this tier list. Hopefully it'll be good for the algorithm. Please comment below. If uh you've had a great experience on retatriide better than tzepide etc. If that is truly what it is since you're probably getting it from China. I think somearmacies occasionally do like the whack-a-ole game where they make it for a bit. So that's obviously a better place to get it. Presumably they're doing this for like little clinical trials, but I guess who knows. Um, yeah, that's retarder tide. Unfortunately, still in the F tier. 95% chance that this goes into A tier or S tier in just a year or two. >> Yep. So, we'll see some more and then they'll report some real world data once it's out in these big health systems and a less controlled environment. So, that'll be interesting to see as well. >> Um, next we have looks like Ompic. So Zmpic is the uh I guess not the OG J GLP-1 but was sort of the first one that got a lot of attention. >> It was one of the big first once a week long acting GLP1 receptor agonists. So OImpic is simaglutide so is Wiggoi and it is the subcutaneous version that is in an auto injector pin. I believe they now have I think Osimpic and Wiggoi in vials. Um it took them a while to do that. They had uh Zetbound files before that. >> Yeah, >> they have vials. It may still just be a pin, but it's like discounted perhaps. >> Yeah, they have discount programs and I know they're they're at least working on the vials. Um because basically the good thing is uh you know we're in what I call peptide prohibition but um you know compoundingarmacies make things that have more dosing flexibility than uh actually ompic pins have great dosing flexibility but we go does not andaro does not and Zepbound does not. So of course a lot of patients do better on a twice a week GLP1. I think um MER was one of the very first places to do that. We'll kind of take some partial credit for that. Um but some people do better because the half-life of both simaglutide and tepatide can be five days. So the halflife is not necessarily seven days. So you are absolutely peing in troughing in a lot of cases. Generally tzepide is a little bit longer halflife than simaglutide. Um but you know just like testosterone I guess it took us 80 years to figure out once every two week dosing is not optimal and we still have not updated the label of something like depo testosterone >> but for all the >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So I think Ompic if we're looking at its place today like where it stacks up I would probably put it in B >> B tier >> B tier >> just because it has some scary rare side effects that you're not seeing with the other agents in the class. So things like what is it retinal artery occlusion and blindness? >> Blindness. >> Haven't seen that with some of the other ones. >> More stomach paralysis which is gastroparesis. More illeas which is intestine paralysis. >> Yeah. anecdotally raising IGF-1 more which I mean could be a good or a bad thing depending on the clinical context you're looking at probably not something you want chronically forever >> probably worse if you did start it in someone with multiple endocrine neoplasia because it is a stronger GLP1 compared to something like tzepide >> at clinical doses >> which brings us to tzepideeptide so empower turseptide compounded maybe C or Dtier or wait we're just doing the tursepide molecule I forgot Uh this is probably food grade the same tzepide you can get in your cold foam at Starbucks now. Um actually tzepide is I guess I would say my favorite out of the GLP ones right now. Caveat that when we get to laglutide later but yep >> especially very low doses. Right. If I I put someone on one milligram per week. >> Wait there's not a brand name one milligram. >> That's right. And if you try to use a Zepbound vial more than once that Eli Liy sends you, >> it stops working. Or so I'm told by the Lily representatives. >> They literally slap your wrists. >> Yeah. >> No, they they don't actually slap your wrist, but they they find you money. Yeah. They charge you money and they tell you it doesn't work. So, yeah. I mean, I'd love to use the Lily Direct files more often, but if somebody's on one milligram once a week, which a lot of people are, they're going to have to pay a ton of fines and the pharmacy is not going to want to fill that. >> Yeah, they're >> so why have the multid-dosese file when or the four dose file? Yeah, I think it probably comes down to that they can't market dosing flexibility like a one of these tele medicine companies can that specifically advertises micro dosing. >> Well, they don't have to market it. They just need to stop finding people money for being on less of a dose. >> That's fair. Yeah, they could totally change their marketing or their pricing structure to where you don't get penalized if you wait 45 days to order your next drug. They're just specifically penalizing people that are trying to um I don't know, get a good deal, be a savvy consumer, be a good steward of the resources you have >> or use the brand name medication. They're penalizing those people. If somebody's on one milligram once a week, >> um which is a lot of people that do quite well on that dose, have less muscle loss, and have great metabolic outcomes. And I still think those doses are useful in cases for cognitive impairment risk of age and in other things as well. Um but yeah, it's just unfortunate. I do think that this does belong in a tier. >> Yeah. So, as much crap as we talked, it is a very good medication. Not perfect for everybody. Some people are going to take one shot of this at a low dose and >> uh maybe even one milligram and they just get diarrhea for a week. It's not for everybody. >> Look at your gut microbiome. Time for some root cause medicine. If if you don't tolerate a very low dose of a GLP-1, time to dig in and find out why. >> Um, >> and what do we have next? Is that a Sharpie? >> Uh, is that Bietta or Burian? >> So that that's Xenotide. This is the OG Hila Monster Venom. >> Yeah. So Exenatide um first came in Bietta and also came in Burian. Uh extreme nausea. Um, at least one of them you had to dose twice a day, not just once a day. And these did work quite well for diabetes. >> Yeah. Um, but extremely unpopular. So, >> these I would put uh C or D tier. Probably C tier. It's >> it's not tolerated that well. I have actually prescribed it before and had patients that are extremely adherent be okay with it, but I do not love it. >> And then here we are. Sexinda or lagglutide. So >> my take if we're looking at the lean body mass or specifically for an elderly individual, right? >> Let's assume you're a uh provider in the traditional medical system and you can't prescribe 1 milligram of trespathide >> or your company's medical legal team says, "Hey, you can't do this or we're going to fire you." >> There's generic lurlutide. >> Then you have lurlutide. That's your sort of what I say, you know, start here. Right. So lag glutide is not going to cause generally excessive weight loss and with that excessive weight loss the risk of lean body mass loss. So if you're 65 years old sedentary >> diabetic patient is >> you'd be on uh vtosa. >> Yeah. >> Which is the same thing as senda. It's >> it's ridiculous that they have different names. >> Yeah. And we have to put this in C tier and we have to move eccent down to D tier because lagglutide is way better than eenotide. >> Then what do we have next? >> Trulicity or doolaglutide which is actually once a week. A lot of people don't realize that and it's actually still on the shortage list. So, I'm shocked that compounding pharmacies aren't making this without compounding it with other things for tolerability, of course, or to address multiple pathologies at once >> or because it's on the shortage list. >> Yeah. So, um you know, uh Trulicity is still on the shortage list basically because the company that owns it also owns the tepatide molecule and they just don't really care about dulutide anymore. But it works about as well as simaglutide and it's a great long-acting once a week option. Again, also very good to take twice a week. Way less people are on this because most people that would be are just on simaglutide or tepatite as well. >> You literally can hardly get it filled because of the shortage. So >> I would put >> I guess I'd put it at a C plus or a B minus. >> B because it's once a week. The once a week longer acting GLP ones are much better tolerated and lead to better fat loss. So it goes there. Next is rebelsis or what what does that bottle say? What does it deal with that? Simaglutide oral tablets. [sighs and gasps] >> Yeah. Uh if I'm if I'm ranking brand name rebelsis which is about to come out with its weight loss version 25 milligrams 50 milligrams rather than 3 7 and 14 milligrams then I would also put this in the B tier. very well tolerated, fantastic for diabetics. I don't know what Cameron found there. Maybe it's some research chemical website. >> Yeah, >> the same place kids are getting trained in Halo test in these days. >> Yeah, I'm going to call this a B minus. Um, doesn't cure Alzheimer's, right? That study just came out. um also can affect the and I guess this is true to all some degree for all of these but uh the oral ribbelis seems particularly notorious for altering medication levels like >> think about thyroid hormone >> tzepide >> or even your you know tylenol levels right they're going to get much higher that's been shown with some of these GLP ones as well >> tzepide to S tier ompic to a tier doulaglutide and rebels is to B tier. That's probably what we should do. Um, that is actually the end of the peptides, the GLP-1 peptides that we have. But we have two non-peptide small molecules that >> people aren't excited about these >> because they're not peptides. >> They're small. They're molecules. They're not peptides. >> What if they still worked because they still bound the same receptor? >> Oh, well, there's no way they can work without side effects like peptides. Sarcasm. >> Yeah. In all seriousness, one of these did have a ton of side effects, but other than Rebelsis, which kind of has the uh unique delivery mechanism, there's two companies, I believe, Lily and Fizer, and they are studying uh these two that are in phase, one of them's in phase two and one of them's in phase 23 because they'd like to do that these days. And uh they do cause weight loss. >> Yeah. the OR4 GIP run, you know, that's a fun one. I I actually am looking forward to the brand names of these coming out. Um, I would put that right now in F tier because we don't know if it's going to get approved. >> Looks safe in, you know, say 6 to 12 month time frame from everything we know. >> Causes weight loss. Acts through GLP1 and it's an oral option for people that don't like injections. >> Probably going to be better than ribbelis. >> Yep. Um, but that's where it has to sit right now. Um, the dropout rates were significantly better like you alluded to. >> Yep. >> Let me pull up and see just how bad the Fizer product was here. >> The Danuceron also goes to F tier. Not because it is a Fiser medication, but because even higher dropout rates than orphageron um hasn't made it as far, but um >> they don't need some significant retooling. like 39% completed treatment, 38% stopped because of adverse effects, 22% for other reasons like that's an unusually high dropout rate and I'm not I'm not sure what other reasons encompasses like um is that I mean is that just that they >> they got scared from >> they saw that legitimately could be it. So, you know, you had all these people dropping out from adverse effects. You show up to the trial site and you're seeing less and less people at every check-in visit, right? You saw Bob there last week now, but there's no Bob. Did Bob die? >> It's like, I'm going to get out of here. And that's how it works. >> Yeah, it could be. Uh either way, it is going to be interesting to see how these nonpeptide GLP1s play out. But for now, all the ones that are not FD approved are down there in F tier list where they belong. Um given that we're a doctor and a nurse practitioner doing the tier list. If um you know Cameron or one of our other friends was doing this tier list or other tier list, maybe it would look a little bit different. >> Yeah. What I am the most curious on is the energy expenditure component of retatriide. Um, you know, I see a lot of bodybuilders using this. They don't seem like they're losing muscle, but obviously that's heavily confounded, but if it's increasing their energy expenditure, then that's going to make weight loss easier. >> I'm going to ask David, has any have you seen anybody use retatriide that's not also on other peeds? >> Someone who wants to do a natural bodybuilding show with only retatriide. Sounds like a recipe to not do very well. Sounds like a it I mean, like I said, I do think that 95% chance we'll be using this clinically in two years time, but its clinical use is going to be somebody with metabolic syndrome and obesity and they're they just basically need to lose a lot of body fat. >> Yeah. Actually, a lot of the population would do well if they entered a natural bodybuilding competition and did a prep phase and then just didn't rebound after that. I think that would significantly improve a lot of people's health. >> Yeah, that's true. Anyways, uh let us know what you think of our tier list and how terrible it is that we placed things where we placed them. And please comment whatever you like. As always, uh nice, mean, or in between for the algorithm. It all helps the channel grow. Give us a like and subscribe. >> Absolutely. And as always, thank you for your time. May God bless you with health and happiness.
